'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_bind 3DLPI "22 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_bind \- bind DLPI handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_bind\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIsap\fR, \fBuint_t *\fIboundsap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_bind()
function attempts to bind the
.B DLPI
handle
.I dh
to the
.BR SAP
.IR sap .
The handle must be in the
.B DL_UNBOUND DLPI
state and will transition to the
.BR DL_IDLE
.B DLPI
state upon success. Some
.B "DLPI MAC"
types can bind to a
different
.B SAP
than the
.B SAP
.RI "requested, in which case" " boundsap"
returns the actual bound
.BR SAP .
If
.I boundsap
is set to
.BR NULL ,
.B dlpi_bind()
fails if the bound
.B SAP
does not match the requested
.BR SAP .
If the caller does not care which
.B SAP
is chosen,
.B DLPI_ANY_SAP
can be specified for
.IR sap .
This is primarily useful in
conjunction with
.B dlpi_promiscon()
and
.B DL_PROMISC_SAP
to receive
traffic from all \fBSAP\fRs. If \fBDLPI_ANY_SAP\fR is specified, any
transmitted messages must explicitly specify a
.B SAP
using
.BR dlpi_send (3DLPI).
.sp
.LP
Upon success, the caller can use
.BR dlpi_recv (3DLPI)
to receive data
matching the bound
.B SAP
that is sent to the
.B DLPI
link associated
with
.IR dh .
In addition, the caller can use
.BR dlpi_send (3DLPI)
to send
data over the bound
.B SAP
address associated with
.B DLPI
handle
.IR dh .
The physical address of the bound handle can be retrieved with
.BR dlpi_info (3DLPI).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
.B DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value listed
in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EBADMSG
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Invalid
.B DLPI
handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
.B DLPI
operation timed out
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EUNAVAILSAP
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Unavailable
.BR "DLPI SAP"
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_info (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_recv (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_send (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_unbind (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
