'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_send 3DLPI "15 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_send \- send a data message using DLPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_send\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBconst void *\fIdaddrp\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIdaddrlen\fR, \fBconst void *\fImsgbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fImsglen\fR,
     \fBconst dlpi_sendinfo_t *\fIsendp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_send()
function attempts to send the contents of
.I msgbuf
over the
.B DLPI
link instance associated with the
.B DLPI
handle
.I dh
to the destination address specified by
.IR daddrp .
The size of
.I msgbuf
and
.I daddrp
are provided by the
.I msglen
and
.I daddrlen
arguments, respectively. The attempt will fail if
.I dh
is
not in the
.B "DL_IDLE DLPI"
.RI "state, the address named by" " daddrp"
is invalid,
.I daddrlen
is larger than
.BR DLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX ,
or
.I msglen
is outside the range reported by
.BR dlpi_info (3DLPI).
.sp
.LP
If the
.B sendp
argument is
.IR NULL ,
data is sent using the bound SAP
associated with
.I dh
(see
.BR dlpi_bind (3DLPI))
and with default
priority. Otherwise,
.I sendp
must point to a
.B dlpi_sendinfo_t
structure defined in
.B <libdlpi.h>
as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct {
        uint_t          dsi_sap;
        dl_priority_t   dsi_prio;
} dlpi_sendinfo_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I dsi_sap
value indicates the SAP to use for the message and the
.I dsi_prio
argument indicates the priority.  The priority range spans from
0 to 100, with 0 being the highest priority.  If one wishes to only alter the
SAP or priority (but not both), the current SAP can be retrieved using
.BR dlpi_info (3DLPI),
and the default priority can be specified by using the
.B DL_QOS_DONT_CARE
constant.
.sp
.LP
If the handle is in raw mode (see
.B DLPI_RAW
in
.BR dlpi_open (3DLPI)),
.I msgbuf
must start with the link-layer header (see
.BR dlpi (7P)).
In
raw mode, the contents of
.I daddrp
and
.I sendp
are ignored, as they
are already specified by the link-layer header in
.IR msgbuf .
.sp
.LP
If
.I msgbuf
is accepted for delivery, no error is returned. However,
because only unacknowledged connectionless service
.RB ( DL_CLDLS )
is
currently supported, a successful return does not guarantee that the data will
be successfully delivered to
.IR daddrp .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
.B DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value listed
in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid
.B DLPI
handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid argument
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_bind (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_info (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_open (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dlpi (7P)
