'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_set_timeout 3DLPI "21 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_set_timeout \- set DLPI handle timeout interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fIdlpi_set_timeout\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsec\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_set_timeout()
function sets the timeout interval to
\fIsec\fR seconds on DLPI handle
.IR dh .
This timeout is used by
.BR libdlpi (3LIB)
functions that require explicit acknowledgment from the
associated DLPI link, and bounds the number of seconds that a function will
wait for an acknowledgment before returning
.BR DLPI_ETIMEDOUT .
Except for
.BR dlpi_recv (3DLPI),
which has a
.I timeout
argument, any function
that is documented to return
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
can take up to the
\fItimeout\fR interval to complete.
.sp
.LP
Callers that do not require an upper bound on timeouts are strongly
encouraged to never call
.BR dlpi_set_timeout() ,
and allow
.BR libdlpi
to use its default
.I timeout
value. The default
.I timeout
value is
intended to ensure that
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
will only be returned if the
DLPI link has truly become unresponsive. The default
.I timeout
value is
intended to ensure that
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
will be returned only if the
DLPI link has truly become unresponsive.
.sp
.LP
Callers that do require an explicit upper bound can specify that value at
any time by calling
.BR dlpi_set_timeout() .
However, note that values
less than 5 seconds may trigger spurious failures on certain DLPI links and
systems under high load, and thus are discouraged. Attempts to set the
\fItimeout\fR value to less than 1 second will fail.
.sp
.LP
If
.I sec
is set to
.BR DLPI_DEF_TIMEOUT ,
the default
.IR timeout
value is restored.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. Otherwise, a
.B DLPI
error
value is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid
.B DLPI
handle
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
