'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_get_physaddr 3DLPI "22 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_get_physaddr \- get physical address using DLPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_get_physaddr\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fIaddrp\fR,\fBsize_t *\fIaddrlenp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_get_physaddr()
function gets a physical address from the
.B DLPI
link instance associated with
.B DLPI
handle
.IR dh .
The
retrieved address depends upon
.IR type ,
which can be:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DL_FACT_PHYS_ADDR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Factory physical address
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DL_CURR_PHYS_ADDR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Current physical address
.RE

.sp
.LP
The operation can be performed in any
.B DLPI
state of
.IR dh .
.sp
.LP
The caller must ensure that
.I addrp
is at least
.BR DLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX
bytes in size and
.I addrlenp
must contain the length of
.IR addrp .
Upon
success,
.I addrp
contains the specified physical address, and
.I addrlenp
contains the physical address length. If a physical address is
not available,
.I addrp
is not filled in and
.I addrlenp
is set to
zero.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
.B DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value listed
in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EBADMSG
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid
.B DLPI
handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid argument
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B DLPI
operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_set_physaddr (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
