'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_unbind 3DLPI "22 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_unbind \- unbind DLPI handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_unbind\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_unbind()
function unbinds to bind the
.B DLPI
handle
.I dh
from the bound
.BR SAP .
The handle must be in the
.BR DL_IDLE
.B DLPI
state and upon success, the handle transitions to the
.B DL_UNBOUND
state.
.sp
.LP
Upon success, the caller will no longer be able to send or receive data using
the
.B DLPI
link associated with
.IR dh .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
.B DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
will be returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EBADMSG
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Invalid DLPI handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B DLPI
operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_bind (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
