'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_disabnotify 3DLPI "21 Sep 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_disabnotify \- disable DLPI notification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -\fBldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_disabnotify\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\fR \fIid\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIargp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_disabnotify()
function disables the notification registration
associated with identifier
.IR id .
If
.I argp
is not NULL, the argument
.I arg
that was passed to \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fR(3DLPI) during registration
is also returned. This operation can be performed in any DLPI state of a
handle.
.sp
.LP
Closing the DLPI handle
.I dh
will also remove all associated callback
functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value listed in the
following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A DLPI handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
An argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI notification ID is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_enabnotify (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
