'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlpi_enabnotify 3DLPI "10 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_enabnotify \- enable DLPI notification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -\fBldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fInotes\fR,
     \fBdlpi_notifyfunc_t *\fIfuncp\fR, \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t *\fIid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtypedef void\fR \fBdlpi_notifyfunc_t\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR,
     \fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t *\fR, \fBvoid *\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlpi_enabnotify()
function enables a notification callback for the
set of events specified in
.IR notes ,
which must be one or more (by a logical
OR operation) of the DLPI notifications documented in
.BR dlpi (7P).
The
callback function
.I funcp
is registered with the DLPI handle
.I dh
and is
invoked when
.I dh
receives notification for any of the specified event
types. Upon success,
.I id
contains the identifier associated with the
registration.
.sp
.LP
Multiple event types can be registered for a callback function on the DLPI
handle
.IR dh .
Similarly, the same event type can be registered multiple times
on the same handle.
.sp
.LP
Once a callback has been registered,
.B libdlpi
will check for notification
events on the DLPI handle
.IR dh ,
when exchanging DLPI messages with the
underlying DLPI link instance. The \fBdlpi_recv\fR(3DLPI) function will always
check for notification events, but other
.B libdlpi
operations may also lead
to an event callback being invoked. Although there may be no expected data
messages to be received,
.B dlpi_recv()
can be called, as shown below, with a
null buffer to force a check for pending events on the underlying DLPI link
instance.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dlpi_recv(dh, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, 0, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
When a notification event of interest occurs, the callback function is invoked
with the arguments
.IR arg ,
originally passed to
.BR dlpi_disabnotify (3DLPI),
and
.IR infop ,
whose members are described
below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uint_t
.I dni_note
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Notification event type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uint_t
.I dni_speed
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Current speed, in kilobits per second, of the DLPI link. Valid only for
.BR DL_NOTE_SPEED .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uint_t
.I dni_size
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Current maximum message size, in bytes, that the DLPI link is able to accept
for transmission. Valid only for
.BR DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uchar_t
.I dni_physaddrlen
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Link-layer physical address length, in bytes. Valid only for
.BR DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBuchar_t\fR \fIdni_physaddr\fR[]\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Link-layer physical address of DLPI link.  Valid only for
.BR DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B libdlpi
library will allocate and free the \fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t\fR
structure and the caller must not allocate the structure or perform any
operations that require its size to be known.
.sp
.LP
The callback is not allowed to block.  This precludes calling
.B dlpi_enabnotify()
from a callback, but non-blocking \fBlibdlpi\fR
functions, including
.BR dlpi_disabnotify() ,
can be called.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B DLPI_SUCCESS
is returned. If
.B DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.B errno
contains  the  specific  UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a DLPI
error value defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
or an error value listed in the
following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINHANDLE
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A DLPI handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
An argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI notification ID is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ENOTENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI notification is not supported by the link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI operation timed out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DLPI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The DLPI operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlpi_disabnotify (3DLPI),
.BR dlpi_recv (3DLPI),
.BR libdlpi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dlpi (7P)
