'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH papiAttributeListAddValue 3PAPI "17 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "PAPI Library Functions"
.SH NAME
papiAttributeListAddValue, papiAttributeListAddBoolean,
papiAttributeListAddCollection, papiAttributeListAddDatetime,
papiAttributeListAddInteger, papiAttributeListAddMetadata,
papiAttributeListAddRange, papiAttributeListAddResolution,
papiAttributeListAddString, papiAttributeListDelete,
papiAttributeListGetValue, papiAttributeListGetNext, papiAttributeListFind,
papiAttributeListGetBoolean, papiAttributeListGetCollection,
papiAttributeListGetDatetime, papiAttributeListGetInteger,
papiAttributeListGetMetadata, papiAttributeListGetRange,
papiAttributeListGetResolution, papiAttributeListGetString,
papiAttributeListFromString, papiAttributeListToString,
papiAttributeListFree \- manage PAPI attribute lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpapi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <papi.h>

\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddValue\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_attribute_value_type_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBpapi_attribute_value_t *\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddString\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBchar *\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddInteger\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIinteger\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddBoolean\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBchar\fR \fIboolean\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddRange\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlower\fR, \fBint\fR \fIupper\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddResolution\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIxres\fR, \fBint\fR \fIyres\fR,
     \fBpapi_resolution_unit_t\fR \fIunits\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddDatetime\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBtime_t\fR \fIdatetime\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddCollection\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIcollection\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListAddMetadata\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_metadata_t\fR \fImetadata\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListDelete\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattributes\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetValue\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_attribute_value_type_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBpapi_attribute_value_t **\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetString\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBchar **\fIvptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetInteger\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint *\fIvptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetBoolean\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBchar *\fIvptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetRange\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint *\fImin\fR, \fBint *\fImax\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetResolution\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBint *\fIx\fR, \fBint *\fIy\fR,
     \fBpapi_resolution_unit_t *\fIunits\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetDatetime\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBtime_t *\fIdt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetCollection\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIcollection\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListGetMetadata\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR, \fBpapi_metadata_t *\fIvptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_attribute_t *\fBpapiAttributeListFind\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_attribute_t *\fBpapiAttributeListGetNext\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIlist\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fIiterator\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpapiAttributeListFree\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIattributes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListFromString\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t ***\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBchar *\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpapi_status_t\fR \fBpapiAttributeListToString\fR(\fBpapi_attribute_t **\fIattrs\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIdelim\fR, \fBchar *\fIbuffer\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I attrs
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
address of array of pointers to attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I attributes
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
a list of attributes (of type
.BR "papi_attribute_t **" )
contained in a
collection. Lists can be hierarchical.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I boolean
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
boolean value (\fBPAPI_TRUE\fR or \fBPAPI_FALSE)\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIbuffer\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
buffer to fill
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIbuflen\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
length of supplied buffer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I collection
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
list of attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I datetime
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
attribute time value specified in
.B time_t
representation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I delim
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
delimiter used in construction of a string representation of an attribute
list
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dt
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
date and time represented as a
.BR time_t
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIflags\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specify bit fields defining how actions will be performed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_ATTR_REPLACE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Free any existing value(s) and replace it with the supplied value(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_ATTR_APPEND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add the supplied value to the attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_ATTR_EXCL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add the supplied value to the attribute, if the attribute was not
previously defined.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I integer
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
integer value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I iterator
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
iterator for enumerating multiple values of multi-value attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I list
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
array of pointers to attributes (attribute list)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lower
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
lower bound for a range of integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I max
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
maximum value in a range
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I metadata
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
pseudo-values for specialized attributes
.BR PAPI_UNSUPPORTED ,
.BR PAPI_DEFAULT ,
.BR PAPI_UNKNOWN ,
.BR PAPI_NO_VALUE ,
.BR PAPI_NOT_SETTABLE ,
.B PAPI_DELETE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I min
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
minimum value in a range
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
attribute name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I string
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
string value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
attribute type (\fBPAPI_STRING\fR,
.BR PAPI_INTEGER ,
.BR PAPI_BOOLEAN ,
.BR PAPI_RANGE ,
.BR PAPI_RESOLUTION ,
.BR PAPI_DATETIME ,
.BR PAPI_COLLECTION ,
.BR PAPI_METADATA )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I units
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
resolution unit of measure (\fBPAPI_RES_PER_INCH\fR or
.BR PAPI_RES_PER_CM )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I upper
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
upper bound for a range of integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
attribute value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I vptr
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
pointer to arbitrary data
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I x
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
horizontal (x) resolution
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I xres
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
horizontal (x) component of a resolution
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
vertical (y) resolution
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I yres
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
vertical (y) component of a resolution
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListAdd*()
functions add new attributes and/or
values to the attribute list passed in. If necessary, the attribute list
passed in is expanded to contain a new attribute pointer for any new
attributes added to the list. The list is null-terminated. Space for the new
attributes and values is allocated and the name and value are copied into
this allocated space.
.sp
.LP
If
.B PAPI_ATTR_REPLACE
is specified in flags, any existing attribute
values are freed and replaced with the supplied value.
.sp
.LP
If
.B PAPI_ATTR_APPEND
is specified, the supplied value is appended to
the attribute's list of values.
.sp
.LP
If
.B PAPI_ATTR_EXCL
is specified, the operation succeeds only if the
attribute was not previously defined.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListGet*()
functions retrieve an attribute value
from an attribute list. If the attribute is a multi-valued attribute, the
first call to retrieve a value should pass in an iterator and attribute
name. Subsequent calls to retrieve additional values should pass in the
iterator and a null value for the attribute name.  If a single-valued
attribute is to be retrieved,
.I NULL
can be used in place of the
iterator.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of a get operation, the value passed in (string,
integer, boolean, .\|.\|.) is changed to the value from the attribute list.  If
the operation fails for any reason (type mismatch, not found, .\|.\|.), the
value passed in remains untouched.
.sp
.LP
The resulting value returned from a get operation is returned from the
attribute list's allocated memory. It is not guaranteed to be available
after the attribute list has been freed.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListDelete()
function removes an attribute from a
supplied list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListFind()
function allows an application to
retrieve an entire attribute structure from the passed-in attribute list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListGetNext()
function allows an application to walk
through an attribute list returning subsequent attributes from the list.
With the first call, the iterator should be initialized to
.I NULL
and
subsequent calls should use
.I NULL
for the list argument.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListFree()
function deallocates all memory
associated with an attribute list, including values that might have been
retrieved previously using
.B papiAttributeListGet*()
calls.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListFromString()
function takes in a string
representation of a set of attributes, parses the string and adds the
attributes to the passed in attribute list using the flags to determine how
to add them.  String values are specified with "key=value". Integer values
are specified with "key=number". Boolean values are specified with either
"key=(true|false)" or "[no]key". Multiple attributes can be specified in the
string by separating them with a whitespace character.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiAttributeListToString()
function converts an attribute list
to a string representation that can be displayed to a user.  The delimiter
value is placed between attributes in the string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return
.B PAPI_OK
upon successful completion and one of
the following on failure:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_BAD_ARGUMENT
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The supplied arguments were not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_CONFLICT
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
There was an attribute type mismatch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The requested attribute could not be found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_NOT_POSSIBLE
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The requested operation could not be performed due to buffer overflow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAPI_TEMPORARY_ERROR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Memory could not be allocated to add to the attribute list.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR The following example manipulates a PAPI attribute list.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/*
 * program to manipulate a PAPI attribute list
 */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <papi.h>

/*ARGSUSED*/
int
main(int ac, char *av[])
{
    char buf[BUFSIZ];
    papi_status_t status;
    papi_attribute_t **list = NULL;
    void *iter = NULL;
    char *string = NULL;
    int32_t integer = 0;

    /* build an attribute list */
    (void) papiAttributeListAddString(&list, PAPI_ATTR_EXCL,
                                "job-title", "example");
    (void) papiAttributeListAddInteger(&list, PAPI_ATTR_EXCL,
                                "copies", 1);
    (void) papiAttributeListFromString(&list, PAPI_ATTR_REPLACE, av[1]);
    status = papiAttributeListAddString(&list, PAPI_ATTR_EXCL,
                                "document-format", "text/plain");
    if (status != PAPI_OK)
        printf("failed to set document-format to text/plain: %s\en",
               papiStatusString(status));

    /* dump the list */
    status = papiAttributeListToString(list, "\en\et", buf, sizeof (buf));
    if (status == PAPI_OK)
        printf("Attributes: %s\en", buf);
    else
        printf("Attribute list to big to dump\en");


    /* retreive various elements */
    integer = 12;
    (void) papiAttributeListGetInteger(list, NULL, "copies", &integer);
    printf("copies: %d\en", integer);

    string = NULL;
    for (status = papiAttributeListGetString(list, &oter,
                                            "job-files", &string);
         status == PAPI_OK;
         status = papiAttributeListGetString(list, &iter, NULL, &string))
        printf("file: %s\en", string);

    papiAttributeListFree(list);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpapi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
