'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH papiLibrarySupportedCall 3PAPI "17 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "PAPI Library Functions"
.SH NAME
papiLibrarySupportedCall, papiLibrarySupportedCalls \- determine if a PAPI
function returns valid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpapi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <papi.h>

\fBchar\fR \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCall\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar **\fBpapiLibrarySupportedCalls\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
the name of a PAPI function
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiLibrarySupportedCall()
function queries to determine if a
particular PAPI function returns valid data other than
.BR PAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED .
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiLibrarySupportedCalls()
function enumerates all PAPI
functions that return valid data other than
.BR PAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiLibrarySupportedCall()
function returns
.B PAPI_TRUE
if
the specified PAPI function returns valid data other than
.BR PAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED .
Otherwise,
.B PAPI_FALSE
is
returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.B papiLibrarySupportedCalls()
function returns a null-terminated
array of strings listing all of the PAPI functions that return valid data
other than
.BR PAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED .
Otherwise,
.I NULL
is
returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpapi (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
