'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_inquire_mechs_for_name 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_mechs_for_name \- list mechanisms that support the specified
name-type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBgss_OID_set *\fImech_types\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_inquire_mechs_for_name()
function returns the set of
mechanisms supported by the
.B GSS-API
that may be able to process the
specified name.  Each mechanism returned will recognize at least one element
within the internal name.
.sp
.LP
Some implementations of the
.B GSS-API
may perform this test by checking
nametype information contained within the passed name and registration
information provided by individual mechanisms.  This means that the
.I mech_types
set returned by the function may indicate that a particular
mechanism will understand the name, when in fact the mechanism would refuse
to accept the name as input to
.BR gss_canonicalize_name (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
or
.BR gss_add_cred (3GSS),
due to some property of the name itself rather
than the name-type. Therefore, this function should be used only as a
pre-filter for a call to a subsequent mechanism-specific function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_inquire_mechs_for_name()
follow in
alphabetical order:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The name to which the inquiry relates.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech_types
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set of mechanisms that may support the specified name.  The returned
.B OID
set must be freed by the caller after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_inquire_mechs_for_name()
function may return the following
status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I input_name
parameter was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I input_name
parameter contained an invalid or unsupported type of
name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_add_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_canonicalize_name (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
