'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_process_context_token 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_process_context_token \- pass asynchronous token to security service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_process_context_token\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_ctx_id_t\fR \fIcontext_handle\fR,\fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fItoken_buffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_process_context_token()
function provides a way to pass an
asynchronous token to the security service. Most context-level tokens are
emitted and processed synchronously by
.B gss_init_sec_context()
and
.BR gss_accept_sec_context() ,
and the application is informed as to
whether further tokens are expected by the
.B GSS_C_CONTINUE_NEEDED
major
status bit. Occasionally, a mechanism might need to emit a context-level
token at a point when the peer entity is not expecting a token. For example,
the initiator's final call to
.B gss_init_sec_context()
may emit a token
and return a status of
.BR GSS_S_COMPLETE ,
but the acceptor's call to
.B gss_accept_sec_context()
might fail. The acceptor's mechanism might
want to send a token containing an error indication to the initiator, but
the initiator is not expecting a token at this point, believing that the
context is fully established.
.B gss_process_context_token()
provides a
way to pass such a token to the mechanism at any time.
.sp
.LP
This function is provided for compatibility with the
.B GSS-API
version
1. Because
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
no longer returns a valid
.I output_token
to be sent to
.BR gss_process_context_token() ,
applications using a newer version of the
.B GSS-API
do not need to rely
on this function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_process_context_token()
are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context_handle
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Context handle of context on which token is to be processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I token_buffer
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Token to process.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B gss_process_context_token()
returns one of the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_DEFECTIVE_TOKEN
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Indicates that consistency checks performed on the token failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CONTEXT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I context_handle
did not refer to a valid context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_delete_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
