'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_export_sec_context 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_export_sec_context \- transfer a security context to another process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_export_sec_context\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_ctx_id_t *\fIcontext_handle\fR,\fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIinterprocess_token\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_export_sec_context()
function generates an interprocess token
for transfer to another process within an end system.
.B gss_export_sec_context()
and
.B gss_import_sec_context()
allow a
security context to be transferred between processes on a single machine.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_export_sec_context()
function supports the sharing of work
between multiple processes. This routine is typically used by the
context-acceptor, in an application where a single process receives incoming
connection requests and accepts security contexts over them, then passes the
established context to one or more other processes for message exchange.
.B gss_export_sec_context()
deactivates the security context for the
calling process and creates an interprocess token which, when passed to
.B gss_import_sec_context()
in another process, reactivates the context
in the second process. Only a single instantiation of a given context can be
active at any one time; a subsequent attempt by a context exporter to access
the exported security context will fail.
.sp
.LP
The interprocess token may contain security-sensitive information, for
example cryptographic keys.  While mechanisms are encouraged to either avoid
placing such sensitive information within interprocess tokens or to encrypt
the token before returning it to the application, in a typical
object-library
.B GSS-API
implementation, this might not be possible.
Thus, the application must take care to protect the interprocess token and
ensure that any process to which the token is transferred is trustworthy. If
creation of the interprocess token is successful, the \fBGSS-API\fR
deallocates all process-wide resources associated with the security context
and sets the context_handle to
.BR GSS_C_NO_CONTEXT .
In the event of an
error that makes it impossible to complete the export of the security
context, the function does not return an interprocess token and leaves the
security context referenced by the
.I context_handle
parameter
untouched.
.sp
.LP
Sun's implementation of
.B gss_export_sec_context()
does not encrypt the
interprocess token. The interprocess token is serialized before it is
transferred to another process.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_export_sec_context()
are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context_handle
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Context handle identifying the context to transfer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interprocess_token
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Token to be transferred to target process. Storage associated with this
token must be freed by the application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B gss_export_sec_context()
returns one of the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CONTEXT_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The context has expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CONTEXT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The context was invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_UNAVAILABLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_import_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
