'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_import_name 3GSS "30 Jun 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_import_name \- convert a contiguous string name to GSS_API internal
format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_import_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR \fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fIinput_name_buffer\fR, \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fIinput_name_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fIoutput_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_import_name()
function converts a contiguous string name to
internal form. In general, the internal name returned by means of the
.I output_name
parameter will not be a mechanism name; the exception to
this is if the
.I input_name_type
indicates that the contiguous string
provided by means of the
.I input_name_buffer
parameter is of type
.BR GSS_C_NT_EXPORT_NAME ,
in which case, the returned internal name will
be a mechanism name for the mechanism that exported the name.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_import_name()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_name_buffer
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B gss_buffer_desc
structure containing the name to be imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_name_type
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A
.B gss_OID
that specifies the format that the \fIinput_name_buffer\fR
is in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_name
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B gss_name_t
structure to receive the returned name in internal
form. Storage associated with this name must be freed by the application
after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_name() .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_import_name()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.B gss_import_name()
function completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I input_name_type
was unrecognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I input_name
parameter could not be interpreted as a name of the
specified type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_MECH
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I input_name_type
was
.BR GSS_C_NT_EXPORT_NAME ,
but the mechanism
contained within the
.I input_name
is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
