'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_add_cred 3GSS "30 Jun 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_add_cred \- add a credential-element to a credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_add_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_cred_id_t\fR \fIinput_cred_handle\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIdesired_name\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fIdesired_mech\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_usage_t\fR \fIcred_usage\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32\fR \fIinitiator_time_req\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32\fR \fIacceptor_time_req\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_id_t *\fIoutput_cred_handle\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set *\fIactual_mechs\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fIinitiator_time_rec\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fIacceptor_time_rec\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_add_cred()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_cred_handle
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Credential to which the credential-element is added. If
.B GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL
is specified, the function composes the new
credential based on default behavior. While the credential-handle is not
modified by
.BR gss_add_cred() ,
the underlying credential is modified if
.I output_credential_handle
is
.BR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I desired_name
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Name of the principal for which a credential should be acquired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I desired_mech
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Underlying security mechanism with which the credential can be used.
GSS_C_NULL_OID can be used to obtain a default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_usage
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Flag that indicates how a credential is used to initiate or accept security
credentials. If the flag is
.BR GSS_C_ACCEPT ,
the credentials are used
only to accept security credentials. If the flag is
.BR GSS_C_INITIATE ,
the credentials are used only to initiate security credentials. If the flag
is GSS_C_BOTH, the credentials can be used to either initiate or accept
security contexts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I initiator_time_req
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Number of seconds that the credential may remain valid for initiating
security contexts. This argument is ignored if the composed credentials are
of the
.B GSS_C_ACCEPT
type. Specify
.B GSS_C_INDEFINITE
to request
that the credentials have the maximum permitted initiator lifetime.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I acceptor_time_req
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Number of seconds that the credential may remain valid for accepting
security contexts. This argument is ignored if the composed credentials are
of the
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
type. Specify
.B GSS_C_INDEFINITE
to request
that the credentials have the maximum permitted initiator lifetime.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_cred_handle
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Returned credential handle that contains the new credential-element and all
the credential-elements from
.IR input_cred_handle .
If a valid pointer to
a
.B gss_cred_id_t
is supplied for this parameter, \fBgss_add_cred()\fR
creates a new credential handle that contains all credential-elements from
.I input_cred_handle
and the newly acquired credential-element. If
.B NULL
is specified for this parameter, the newly acquired
credential-element is added to the credential identified by
.IR input_cred_handle .
.sp
The resources associated with any credential handle returned by means of
this parameter must be released by the application after use by a call to
.BR gss_release_cred (3GSS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I actual_mechs
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Complete set of mechanisms for which the new credential is valid. Storage
for the returned \fBOID\fR-set must be freed by the application after use by
a call to \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS). Specify \fBNULL\fR if this
parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I initiator_time_rec
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Actual number of seconds for which the returned credentials remain valid
for initiating contexts using the specified mechanism. If a mechanism does
not support expiration of credentials, the value
.B GSS_C_INDEFINITE
is
returned. Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I acceptor_time_rec
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Actual number of seconds for which the returned credentials remain valid
for accepting security contexts using the specified mechanism. If a
mechanism does not support expiration of credentials, the value
.B GSS_C_INDEFINITE
is returned. Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is
not required.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_cred()
function adds a credential-element to a
credential. The credential-element is identified by the name of the
principal to which it refers. This function is not intended as a function to
login to the network. A function for login to the network would involve
creating new mechanism-specific authentication data, rather than acquiring a
handle to existing data.
.sp
.LP
If the value of
.I desired_name
is
.BR GSS_C_NO_NAME ,
the call is
interpreted as a request to add a credential-element to invoke default
behavior when passed to \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS) if the value of
.I cred_usage
is
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH .
The call is
also interpreted as a request to add a credential-element to the invoke
default behavior when passed to \fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR(3GSS) if the
value of
.I cred_usage
is
.B GSS_C_ACCEPT
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH .
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_cred()
function is expected to be used primarily by
context acceptors. The
.B GSS-API
provides mechanism-specific ways to
obtain
.B GSS-API
initiator credentials through the system login process.
Consequently, the
.B GSS-API
does not support acquiring
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
or
.B GSS_C_BOTH
credentials by means of
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS)
for any name other than the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B GSS_C_NO_NAME
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Name produced by
.BR gss_inquire_cred "(3GSS) applied to a valid"
credential
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Name produced by
.BR gss_inquire_context "(3GSS) applied to an active"
context
.RE
.sp
.LP
If credential acquisition is time consuming for a mechanism, the mechanism
can choose to delay the actual acquisition until the credential is required
by \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), for example, or by
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS).
Such mechanism-specific implementation
decisions are invisible to the calling application. A call to
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS)
immediately following the call
.B gss_add_cred()
returns valid credential data as well as incurring the
overhead of deferred credential acquisition.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_cred()
function can be used either to compose a new
credential that contains all credential-elements of the original in addition
to the newly-acquired credential-element. The function can also be used to
add the new credential-element to an existing credential. If the value of
the
.I output_cred_handle
parameter is
.BR NULL ,
the new
credential-element is added to the credential identified by
.IR input_cred_handle .
If a valid pointer is specified for the
.I output_cred_handle
parameter, a new credential handle is created.
.sp
.LP
If the value of
.I input_cred_handle
is
.BR GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL ,
the
.B gss_add_cred()
function composes a credential and sets the
.I output_cred_handle
parameter based on the default behavior. The call
has the same effect as a call first made by the application to
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS)
to specify the same usage and to pass
.B GSS_C_NO_NAME
as the
.I desired_name
parameter. Such an application
call obtains an explicit credential handle that incorporates the default
behaviors, then passes the credential handle to
.BR gss_add_cred() ,
and
finally calls \fBgss_release_cred\fR(3GSS) on the first credential handle.
.sp
.LP
If the value of the
.I input_cred_handle
parameter is
.BR GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL ,
a non-\fBNULL\fR value must be supplied for the
.I output_cred_handle
parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_cred()
function can return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_MECH
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
An unavailable mechanism has been requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The type contained within the
.I desired_name
parameter is not
supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The value supplied for
.I desired_name
parameter is ill formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_DUPLICATE_ELEMENT
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The credential already contains an element for the requested mechanism that
has overlapping usage and validity period.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The credentials could not be added because they have expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CRED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
No credentials were found for the specified name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined. The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_inquire_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR libgss (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
