'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_display_status 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_display_status \- convert a GSS-API status code to text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_display_status\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32\fR \fIstatus value\fR,\fBint\fR \fIstatus type\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImech_type\fR, \fBOM_uint32 *\fImessage_context\fR,
     \fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIstatus string\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_display_status()
function enables an application to obtain a
textual representation of a
.B GSS-API
status code for display to the
user or for logging purposes.  Because some status values may indicate
multiple conditions, applications may need to call
.B gss_display_status()
multiple times, with each call generating a
single text string.
.sp
.LP
The
.I message_context
parameter is used by
.B gss_acquire_cred()
to
store state information on error messages that are extracted from a given
.IR status_value .
The
.I message_context
parameter must be initialized
to 0 by the application prior to the first call, and
.B gss_display_status()
will return a non-zero value in this parameter if
there are further messages to extract.
.sp
.LP
The
.I message_context
parameter contains all state information required
by
.B gss_display_status()
to extract further messages from the
.IR status_value .
If a non-zero value is returned in this parameter, the
application is not required to call
.B gss_display_status()
again unless
subsequent messages are desired.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_display_status()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I status_value
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Status value to be converted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I status_type
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
If the value is
.BR GSS_C_GSS_CODE ,
.I status_value
is a
.BR GSS-API
status code. If the value is
.BR GSS_C_MECH_CODE ,
then
.IR status_value
is a mechanism status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech_type
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Underlying mechanism that is used to interpret a minor status value. Supply
.B GSS_C_NO_OID
to obtain the system default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I message_context
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Should be initialized to zero prior to the first call. On return from
.BR gss_display_status() ,
a non-zero
.I status_value
parameter
indicates that additional messages may be extracted from the status code by
means of subsequent calls to
.BR gss_display_status() ,
passing the same
.IR status_value ,
.IR status_type ,
.IR mech_type ,
and
.IR message_context parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I status_string
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Textual representation of the
.IR status_value .
Storage associated with
this parameter must be freed by the application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_display_status()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_MECH
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Indicates that translation in accordance with an unsupported mechanism type
was requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_STATUS
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The status value was not recognized, or the status type was neither
.B GSS_C_GSS_CODE
nor
.BR GSS_C_MECH_CODE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
