'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_inquire_cred 3GSS "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_cred \- obtain information about a credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_cred_id_t\fR \fIcred_handle\fR,\fBgss_name_t *\fIname\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fIlifetime\fR, \fBgss_cred_usage_t *\fIcred_usage\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set *\fImechanisms\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_inquire_cred()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_handle
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Handle that refers to the target credential. Specify
\fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR to inquire about the default initiator
principal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Name of the identity asserted by the credential. Any storage associated
with this name should be freed by the application after use by a call to
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIlifetime\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Number of seconds for which the credential remains valid. If the credential
has expired, this parameter will be set to zero. Specify
.B NULL
if the
parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_usage
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.RI "Flag that indicates how a credential is used. The" " cred_usage"
parameter may contain one of the following values: \fBGSS_C_INITIATE\fR,
.BR GSS_C_ACCEPT ,
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH .
Specify
.B NULL
if this
parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mechanisms
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set of mechanisms supported by the credential. Storage for the returned
\fBOID\fR-set must be freed by the application after use by a call to
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS).
Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is not
required.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B gss_inquire_cred()
function to obtain information about a
credential.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_inquire_cred()
function can return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CRED
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The referenced credentials could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_DEFECTIVE_CREDENTIAL
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The referenced credentials were invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The referenced credentials have expired. If the \fIlifetime\fR parameter
was not passed as
.BR NULL ,
it will be set to
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined. The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR libgss (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
