'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_display_name 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_display_name \- convert internal-form name to text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_display_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\ \fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIoutput_name_buffer\fR,
     \fBgss_OID *\fIoutput_name_type\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_display_name()
function allows an application to obtain a
textual representation of an opaque internal-form  name for display
purposes.
.sp
.LP
If
.I input_name
.RB "denotes an anonymous principal, the" " GSS-API"
returns the
.B gss_OID
value
.B GSS_C_NT_ANONYMOUS
as the
.IR output_name_type ,
and a textual name that is syntactically distinct
from all valid supported printable names in
.IR output_name_buffer .
.sp
.LP
If
.I input_name
was created by a call to
.BR gss_import_name (3GSS),
specifying
.B GSS_C_NO_OID
as the name-type, the GSS-API returns
.B GSS_C_NO_OID
by means of the
.I output_name_type
parameter.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_display_name()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_name
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Name in internal form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_name_buffer
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Buffer to receive textual name string. The application must free storage
associated with this name after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_name_type
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The type of the returned name.  The returned
.B gss_OID
will be a
pointer into static storage and should be treated as read-only by the
caller. In particular, the application should not attempt to free it.
Specify
.I NULL
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_display_name()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The
.I input_name
was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_import_name (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_buffer (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
