'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_acquire_cred 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_acquire_cred \- acquire a handle for a pre-existing credential by
name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t *\fIdesired_name\fR, \fBOM_uint32\fR \fItime_req\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID_set\fR \fIdesired_mech\fR, \fBgss_cred_usage_t\fR \fIcred_usage\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_id_t *\fR \fIoutput_cred_handle\fR, \fBgss_OID_set *\fIactual_mechs\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fItime_rec\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_acquire_cred()
function allows an application to acquire a
handle for a pre-existing credential by name. This routine is not intended
as a function to login to the network; a function for login to the network
would involve creating new credentials rather than merely acquiring a handle
to existing credentials.
.sp
.LP
If
.I desired_name
is
.BR GSS_C_NO_NAME ,
the call is interpreted as a
request for a credential handle that will invoke default behavior when
passed to
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS)
(if
.I cred_usage
is
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH )
or
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS)
(if
.I cred_usage
is
.B GSS_C_ACCEPT
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH ).
.sp
.LP
Normally
.B gss_acquire_cred()
returns a credential that is valid only
for the mechanisms requested by the
.I desired_mechs
argument. However,
if multiple mechanisms can share a single credential element, the function
returns all the mechanisms for which the credential is valid in the
.I actual_mechs
argument.
.sp
.LP
.B gss_acquire_cred()
is intended to be used primarily by context
acceptors, since the
.B GSS-API
routines obtain initiator credentials
through the system login process. Accordingly, you may not acquire
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
or
.B GSS_C_BOTH
credentials by means of
.B gss_acquire_cred()
for any name other than
.BR GSS_C_NO_NAME .
Alternatively, you may acquire
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH
credentials for a name produced when
.BR gss_inquire_cred "(3GSS) is applied"
to a valid credential, or when
.BR gss_inquire_context (3GSS)
is applied to
an active context.
.sp
.LP
If credential acquisition is time-consuming for a mechanism, the mechanism
may choose to delay the actual acquisition until the credential is required,
for example, by
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS)
or by
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS).
Such mechanism-specific implementations
are, however, invisible to the calling application; thus a call of
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS)
immediately following the call of
.B gss_acquire_cred()
will return valid credential data and incur the
overhead of a deferred credential acquisition.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_acquire_cred()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I desired_name
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The name of the principal for which a credential should be acquired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I time_req
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The number of seconds that credentials remain valid. Specify
.B GSS_C_INDEFINITE
to request that the credentials have the maximum
permitted lifetime
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I desired_mechs
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The set of underlying security mechanisms that may be used.
.B GSS_C_NO_OID_SET
may be used to obtain a default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_usage
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A flag that indicates how this credential should be used. If the flag is
.BR GSS_C_ACCEPT ,
then credentials will be used only to accept security
credentials.
.B GSS_C_INITIATE
indicates that credentials will be used
only to initiate security credentials. If the flag is
.BR GSS_C_BOTH ,
then
credentials may be used either to initiate or accept security contexts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_cred_handle
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The returned credential handle.  Resources associated with this credential
handle must be released by the application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_cred (3GSS)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I actual_mechs
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The set of mechanisms for which the credential is valid.  Storage
associated with the returned
.BR OID "-set must be released by the"
application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS).
Specify
.B NULL
if not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I time_rec
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Actual number of seconds for which the returned credentials will remain
valid. Specify
.B NULL
if not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B gss_acquire_cred()
may return the following status code:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
 Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_MECH
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
An unavailable mechanism has been requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The type contained within the
.I desired_name
parameter is not
supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The value supplied for
.I desired_name
parameter is ill formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The credentials could not be acquired because they have expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CRED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
No credentials were found for the specified name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_inquire_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
