'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_delete_sec_context 3GSS "15 jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_delete_sec_context \- delete a GSS-API security context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_delete_sec_context\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_ctx_id_t *\fIcontext_handle\fR,\fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIoutput_token\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
function to delete a security
context. The
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
function will delete the local
data structures associated with the specified security context.  You may not
obtain further security services that use the context specified by
.IR context_handle .
.sp
.LP
In addition to deleting established security contexts,
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
will delete any half-built security contexts
that result from incomplete sequences of calls to
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS)
and
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS).
.sp
.LP
The Solaris implementation of the
.B GSS-API
retains the
.I output_token
parameter for compatibility with version 1 of the
.BR GSS-API .
Both peer applications should invoke
.BR gss_delete_sec_context() ,
passing the value
.B GSS_C_NO_BUFFER
to
the
.I output_token
parameter; this indicates that no token is required.
If the application passes a valid buffer to
.BR gss_delete_sec_context() ,
it will return a zero-length token, indicating that no token should be
transferred by the application.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context_handle
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Context handle identifying specific context to delete. After deleting the
context, the
.B GSS-API
will set
.I context_handle
to
.BR GSS_C_NO_CONTEXT .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_token
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A token to be sent to remote applications that instructs them to delete the
context.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B gss_delete_sec_context()
may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CONTEXT
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
No valid context was supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_accept_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
