'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_oid_to_str 3GSS "15 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_oid_to_str \- convert an OID to a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBgss_oid_to_str\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR, \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fIoid\fR,
     \fBgss_buffer_t\fIoid_str\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Status code returned by underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oid
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\fBGSS-API OID\fR structure to convert.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oid_str
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
String to receive converted
.BR OID .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_oid_to_str()
function converts a
.BR "GSS-API OID"
structure to a string. You can use the function to convert the name of a
mechanism from an
.B OID
to a simple string. This function is a
convenience function, as is its complementary function,
.BR gss_str_to_oid (3GSS).
.sp
.LP
If an
.B OID
must be created, use \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS)
and \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS) to create it.  \fBOID\fRs created in
this way must be released with
.BR gss_release_oid_set "(3GSS). However, it"
is strongly suggested that applications use the default
.BR GSS-API
mechanism instead of creating an
.B OID
for a specific mechanism.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_oid_to_str()
function returns one of the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_READ
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required input parameter could not be read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_WRITE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required output parameter could not be written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_add_oid_set_member (3GSS),
.BR gss_create_empty_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR gss_str_to_oid (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
This function is included for compatibility only with programs using
earlier versions of the
.B GSS-API
and should not be used for new
programs. Other implementations of the
.B GSS-API
might not support this
function, so portable programs should not rely on it. Sun might not continue
to support this function.
