'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_inquire_cred_by_mech 3GSS "15 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_cred_by_mech \- obtain per-mechanism information about a
credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_cred_id_t\fR \fIcred_handle\fR,\fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImech_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fIname\fR, \fBOM_uint32 *\fIinitiator_lifetime\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fIacceptor_lifetime\fR, \fBgss_cred_usage_t *\fIcred_usage\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I acceptor_lifetime
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The number of seconds that the credential is capable of accepting security
contexts under the specified mechanism. If the credential can no longer be
used to accept contexts, or if the credential usage for this mechanism is
.BR GSS_C_INITIATE ,
this parameter will be set to
.BR 0 .
Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_handle
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A handle that refers to the target credential. Specify
.B GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL
to inquire about the default initiator
principal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_usage
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
How the credential may be used with the specified mechanism. The
.I cred_usage
parameter may contain one of the following values:
.BR GSS_C_INITIATE ,
.BR GSS_C_ACCEPT ,
or
.BR GSS_C_BOTH .
Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I initiator_lifetime
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The number of seconds that the credential is capable of initiating security
contexts under the specified mechanism. If the credential can no longer be
used to initiate contexts, or if the credential usage for this mechanism is
.BR GSS_C_ACCEPT ,
this parameter will be set to
.BR 0 .
Specify
.B NULL
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech_type
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The mechanism for which the information should be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The name whose identity the credential asserts. Any storage associated with
this
.I name
must be freed by the application after use by a call to
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_inquire_cred_by_mech()
function obtains per-mechanism
information about a credential.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_inquire_cred_by_mech()
function can return the following
status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The credentials cannot be added because they have expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_DEFECTIVE_CREDENTIAL
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The referenced credentials are invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CRED
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The referenced credentials cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_UNAVAILABLE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.B gss_inquire_cred_by_mech()
function is not available for the
specified mechanism type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
