'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_test_oid_set_member 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_test_oid_set_member \- interrogate an object identifier set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_test_oid_set_member\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImember\fR,\fBconst gss_OID_set\fR \fIset\fR,
     \fBint *\fIpresent\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_test_oid_set_member()
function interrogates an object
identifier set to determine if a specified object identifier is a member.
This function should be used with
.B OID
sets returned by
.BR gss_indicate_mechs (3GSS),
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
and
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS),
but it will also work with user-generated
sets.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_test_oid_set_member()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A mechanism-specific status code
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I member
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An object identifier whose presence is to be tested
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I set
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An object identifier set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I present
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value of
.I present
is non-zero if the specified
.B OID
is a
member of the set; if not, the value of
.I present
is zero.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_test_oid_set_member()
function may return the following
status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_indicate_mechs (3GSS),
.BR gss_inquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
