'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_indicate_mechs 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_indicate_mechs \- determine available security mechanisms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_indicate_mechs\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set  *\fImech_set\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_indicate_mechs()
function enables an application to determine
available underlying security mechanisms.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_indicate_mechs()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech_set
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set of supported mechanisms. The returned
.B gss_OID_set
value will be a
dynamically-allocated
.B OID
set that should be released by the caller
after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_indicate_mechs()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_release_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
