'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_duplicate_name 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_duplicate_name \- create a copy of an internal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_duplicate_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIsrc_name\fR,\fBgss_name_t *\fIdest_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_duplicate_name()
function creates an exact duplicate of the
existing internal name
.IR src_name .
The new
.I dest_name
will be
independent of the
.IR src_name .
The
.I src_name
and
.IR dest_name
must both be released, and the release of one does not affect the validity
of the other.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_duplicate_name()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Internal name to be duplicated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dest_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The resultant copy of
.IR src_name .
Storage associated with this name
must be freed by the application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_duplicate_name()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The
.I src_name
parameter was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
