'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_release_cred 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_release_cred \- discard a credential handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_id_t *\fIcred_handle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_release_cred()
function informs the
.B GSS-API
that the
specified credential handle is no longer required by the application and
frees the associated resources. The
.I cred_handle
parameter is set to
.B GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL
when this call completes successfully.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_release_cred()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_handle
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An opaque handle that identifies the credential to be released. If
.B GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL
is specified, the
.B gss_release_cred()
function will complete successfully, but it will do nothing.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B gss_release_cred()
may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_NO_CRED
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The referenced credentials cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
