'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_add_oid_set_member 3GSS "16 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_add_oid_set_member \- add an object identifier to an object identifier
set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImember_oid\fR, \fBgss_OID_set *\fIoid_set\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_add_oid_set_member()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I member_oid
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Object identifier to be copied into the set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oid_set
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set in which the object identifier should be inserted.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_oid_set_member()
function adds an object identifier to an
object identifier set. You should use this function in conjunction with
.BR gss_create_empty_oid_set (3GSS)
when constructing a set of mechanism
\fBOID\fRs for input to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS). The \fIoid_set\fR
parameter must refer to an
.BR OID "-set created by"
.BR GSS-API ,
that is,
a set returned by
.BR gss_create_empty_oid_set (3GSS).
.sp
.LP
The
.B GSS-API
creates a copy of the
.I member_oid
and inserts this
copy into the set, expanding the storage allocated to the \fBOID\fR-set
elements array, if necessary.  New members are always added to the end of
the OID set's elements. If the
.I member_oid
is already present, the
.I oid_set
should remain unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_add_oid_set_member()
function can return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_create_empty_oid_set (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
