'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_compare_name 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_compare_name \- compare two internal-form names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_compare_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIname1\fR,\fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIname2\fR,
     \fBint *\fIname_equal\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_compare_name()
function allows an application to compare two
internal-form names to determine whether they refer to the same entity.
.sp
.LP
If either name presented to
.B gss_compare_name()
denotes an anonymous
principal, the routines indicate that the two names do not refer to the same
identity.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_compare_name()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name1
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Internal-form name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name2
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Internal-form name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name_equal
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
If non-zero, the names refer to same entity. If 0, the names refer to
different entities. Strictly, the names are not known to refer to the same
identity.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_compare_name()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The two names were of incomparable types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
One or both of
.I name1
or
.I name2
was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
