'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_canonicalize_name 3GSS "14 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_canonicalize_name \- convert an internal name to a mechanism name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImech_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fIoutput_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_canonicalize_name()
function generates a canonical mechanism
name from an arbitrary internal name.  The mechanism name is the name that
would be returned to a context acceptor on successful authentication of a
context where the initiator used the
.I input_name
in a successful call
to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), specifying an OID set containing
.I mech_type
as its only member, followed by a call to
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
specifying
.I mech_type
as the
authentication mechanism.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_canonicalize_name()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The name for which a canonical form is desired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech_type
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The authentication mechanism for which the canonical form of the name is
desired. The desired mechanism must be specified explicitly; no default is
provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The resultant canonical name.  Storage associated with this name must be
freed by the application after use with a call to
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_canonicalize_name()
function may return the status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_MECH
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The identified mechanism is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The provided internal name contains no elements that could be processed by
the specified mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_BAD_NAME
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The provided internal name was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gss_acquire_cred (3GSS),
.BR gss_init_sec_context (3GSS),
.BR gss_release_name (3GSS),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
