'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gss_release_buffer 3GSS "15 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_release_buffer \- free buffer storage allocated by a GSS-API function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_buffer\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fIminor_status\fR, \fBgss_buffer_t\fIbuffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
 The
.B gss_release_buffer()
function frees buffer storage allocated by a
.B
GSS-API
function. The
.B
gss_release_buffer()
function also zeros the length field in the descriptor to which the buffer parameter refers, while the
.B GSS-API
function sets the pointer field in the descriptor to
.BR NULL .
Any buffer object returned by a
.B GSS-API
function may be passed to
.BR gss_release_buffer() ,
even if no storage is associated with the buffer.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for
.B gss_release_buffer()
follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor_status
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I buffer
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The storage associated with the buffer will be deleted.  The
.B gss_buffer_desc()
object will not be freed; however, its length field
will be zeroed.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B gss_release_buffer()
function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_COMPLETE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSS_S_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific
.BR GSS
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by
means of the
.I minor_status
parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWgss (32-bit)
_
SUNWgssx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
