'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH au_user_mask 3BSM "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
au_user_mask \- get user's binary preselection mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBau_user_mask\fR(\fBchar *\fIusername\fR, \fBau_mask_t *\fImask_p\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B au_user_mask()
function reads the default, system wide audit
classes from
.BR audit_control (4),
combines them with the per-user audit
classes from the
.BR audit_user (4)
database, and updates the binary
preselection mask pointed to by
.I mask_p
with the combined value.
.sp
.LP
The audit flags in the
.I flags
field of the
.BR audit_control (4)
database and the
.IR always-audit-flags " and "
.I never-audit-flags
from
the
.BR audit_user (4)
database represent binary audit classes. These
fields are combined by
.BR au_preselect (3BSM)
as follows:
.sp
.LP
mask = (
.I flags
+
.IR always-audit-flags )
\(mi
.I never-audit-flags
.sp
.LP
The
.B au_user_mask()
function fails only if both the both the
.BR audit_control (4)
and the
.BR audit_user (4)
database entries could
not be retrieved.  This allows for flexible configurations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B au_user_mask()
returns 0. It fails and
returns \(mi1 if both the
.BR audit_control (4)
and the
.BR audit_user (4)
database entries could not be retrieved.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_control
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file containing default parameters read by the audit daemon,
.BR auditd (1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_user
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file that stores per-user audit event mask
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR getaudit (2),
.BR setaudit (2),
.BR au_preselect (3BSM),
.BR getacinfo (3BSM),
.BR getauusernam (3BSM),
.BR audit_control (4),
.BR audit_user (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B au_user_mask()
function should be called by programs like
.BR login (1)
which set a process's preselection mask with
.BR setaudit (2).
.BR getaudit (2)
should be used to obtain audit
characteristics for the current process.
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See
.BR bsmconv (1M)
for more
information.
