'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getauclassent 3BSM "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getauclassent, getauclassnam, setauclass, endauclass, getauclassnam_r,
getauclassent_r \- get audit_class entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBstruct au_class_ent *\fBgetauclassnam\fR(\fB const char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_class_ent *\fBgetauclassnam_r\fR(\fB au_class_ent_t *\fIclass_int\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_class_ent *\fBgetauclassent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_class_ent *\fBgetauclassent_r\fR(\fB au_class_ent_t *\fIclass_int\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetauclass\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendauclass\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassent()
function and
.B getauclassnam()
each return an
\fBaudit_class\fR entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassnam()
function searches for an
.B audit_class
entry
with a given class name
.IR name.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassent()
function enumerates audit_class entries. Successive
calls to
.B getauclassent()
return either successive audit_class entries or
.IR NULL .
.sp
.LP
The
.B setauclass()
function ``rewinds'' to the beginning of the
enumeration of audit_class  entries.  Calls to
.B getauclassnam()
may leave
the enumeration in an indeterminate state, so
.B setauclass()
should be
called before the first
.BR getauclassent() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B endauclass()
may be called to indicate that audit_class processing
is complete; the system may then close any open audit_class file, deallocate
storage, and so forth.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassent_r()
and
.B getauclassnam_r()
functions both return
a pointer to an audit_class entry as do their similarly named counterparts.
They each take an additional argument, a pointer to pre-allocated space for an
.BR au_class_ent_t ,
which is returned if the call is successful. To assure
there is enough space for the information returned, the applications
programmer should be sure to allocate
.B AU_CLASS_NAME_MAX
and
\fBAU_CLASS_DESC_MAX\fR bytes for the \fBac_name\fR and \fBac_desc\fR members
of the
.B au_class_ent_t
data structure.
.sp
.LP
The internal representation of an
.B audit_user
entry is an
\fBau_class_ent\fR structure defined in  <\fBbsm/libbsm.h\fR> with the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char        *ac_name;
au_class_t	ac_class;
char       *ac_desc;
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassnam()
and
.B getauclassnam_r()
functions return a
pointer to a
.B au_class_ent
structure if they successfully locate the
requested entry. Otherwise they return \fINULL\fR.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauclassent()
and
.B getauclassent_r()
functions return a
pointer to a
.B au_class_ent
structure if they successfully enumerate an
entry. Otherwise they return
.IR NULL ,
indicating the end of the
enumeration.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_class
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
file that aps audit class numbers to audit class names
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions.
.TE

.sp
.LP
All of the functions described on this man-page are MT-Safe except
\fBgetauclassent()\fR and
.BR getauclassnam ,
which are Unsafe. The
\fBgetauclassent_r()\fR and \fBgetauclassnam_r()\fR functions have the same
functionality as the Unsafe functions, but have a slightly different function
call interface to make them MT-Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR audit_class (4),
.BR audit_event (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
All information is contained in a static area, so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more
information.
