'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getauusernam 3BSM "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getauusernam, getauuserent, setauuser, endauuser, getauusernam_r,
getauuserent_r \- get audit_user entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR  \fB -lsocket \fR  \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBstruct au_user_ent *\fBgetauusernam\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_user_ent *\fBgetauuserent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetauuser\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendauuser\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_user_ent *\fBgetauusernam_r\fR(\fBau_user_ent_t  *\fIu\fR, \fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct au_user_ent *\fBgetauuserent_r\fR(\fBau_user_ent_t *\fIu\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR getauuserent() ,
.BR getauusernam() ,
.BR getauuserent_r() ,
and
.B getauusernam_r()
functions each return an
.B audit_user
entry.
Entries can come from any of the sources specified in the
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
file (see
.BR nsswitch.conf (4)).
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauusernam()
and
.B getauusernam_r()
functions search for an
.B audit_user
entry with a given login name
.IR name .
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauuserent()
and
.B getauuserent_r()
functions enumerate
.B audit_user
entries; successive calls to these functions will return
either successive
.B audit_user
entries or
.IR NULL .
.sp
.LP
The
.B
setauuser()
function "rewinds" to the beginning of the
enumeration of
.B audit_user
entries.  Calls to
.B getauusernam()
and
.B getauusernam_r()
may leave the enumeration in an indeterminate state,
so
.B setauuser()
should be called before the first call to
.B getauuserent()
or
.BR getauuserent_r() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B endauuser()
function may be called to indicate that
.B audit_user
processing is complete; the system may then close any open
.B audit_user
file, deallocate storage, and so forth.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauuserent_r()
and
.B getauusernam_r()
functions both take
as an argument a pointer to an
.B au_user_ent
that is returned on
successful function calls.
.sp
.LP
The internal representation of an
.B audit_user
entry is an
.B au_user_ent
structure defined in
.RB < bsm/libbsm.h >
with the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char        *au_name;
au_mask_t   au_always;
au_mask_t   au_never;
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauusernam()
function returns a pointer to a
.BR au_user_ent
structure if it successfully locates the requested entry. Otherwise it
returns
.IR NULL .
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauuserent()
function returns a pointer to a
.BR au_user_ent
structure if it successfully enumerates an entry. Otherwise it returns
.IR NULL ,
indicating the end of the enumeration.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See
.BR bsmconv (1M)
for more
information.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_user
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
file that stores per-user audit event mask
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
file that stores user ID to username mappings
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR audit_user (4),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
All information for the
.B getauuserent()
and
.BR getauusernam()
functions is contained in a static area, so it must be copied if it is to be
saved.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getauusernam()
and
.B getauuserent()
functions are Unsafe in
multithreaded applications. The
.B getauusernam_r()
and
.B getauuserent_r()
functions provide the same functionality with
interfaces that are MT-Safe.
