'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getacinfo 3BSM "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getacinfo, getacdir, getacflg, getacmin, getacna, setac, endac \- get audit
control file information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetacdir\fR(\fB char *\fIdir\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacmin\fR(\fB int *\fImin_val\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacflg\fR(\fB char *\fIauditstring\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacna\fR(\fB char *\fIauditstring\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetac\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendac\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When first called,
.B getacdir()
provides information about the first
audit directory in the
.B audit_control
file. Thereafter, it returns the
next directory in the file. Successive calls list all the directories listed
in
.BR audit_control (4)
The
.I len
argument specifies the length of the
buffer
.IR dir .
On return,
.I dir
points to the directory entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getacmin()
function reads the minimum value from the
.B audit_control
file and returns the value in
.IR min_val .
The minimum
value specifies how full the file system to which the audit files are being
written can get before the script
.BR audit_warn "(1M) is invoked."
.sp
.LP
The
.B getacflg()
function reads the system audit value from the
.B audit_control
file and returns the value in
.IR auditstring .
The
.I len
argument specifies the length of the buffer
.IR auditstring .
.sp
.LP
The
.B getacna()
function reads the system audit value for
non-attributable audit events from the
.B audit_control
file and returns
the value in
.IR auditstring .
The
.I len
argument specifies the length
of the buffer
.IR auditstring .
Non-attributable events are events that
cannot be attributed to an individual user. The
.BR inetd (1M)
utility and
several other daemons record non-attributable events.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setac()
function rewinds the
.B audit_control
file to allow
repeated searches.
.sp
.LP
The
.B endac()
function closes the
.B audit_control
file when
processing is complete.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_control
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file containing default parameters read by the audit daemon,
.BR auditd (1M)
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.BR getacdir() ,
.BR getacflg() ,
.BR getacna() ,
and
.B getacmin()
functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi2\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
on failure and set
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B getacmin()
and
.B getacflg()
functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
on
.BR EOF.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B getacdir()
function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi1\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
on
.BR EOF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if the directory search had to start from the beginning because one of the
other functions was called between calls to
.BR getacdir() .
.RE

.sp
.LP
These functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi3\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if the directory entry format in the
.B audit_control
file is
incorrect.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR getacdir() ,
.BR getacflg() ,
and
.B getacna()
functions
return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi3\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if the input buffer is too short to accommodate the record.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR audit_warn (1M),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR audit_control (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more
information.
