'\" te
.\" Copyright 2000 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getddent 3BSM "11 Jan 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getddent, getddnam, setddent, endddent, setddfile \- get device_deallocate
entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc \fR  [\fIflag\fR].\|.\|. \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR  [\fIlibrary\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <bsm/devices.h>

\fBdevdealloc_t *\fBgetddent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdevdealloc_t *\fBgetddnam\fR(\fBchar *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetddent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendddent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetddfile\fR(\fBchar *\fIfile\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getddent()
and
.B getddnam()
functions each return a
.B device_deallocate
entry. The
.B getddent()
function enumerates all
.B device_deallocate
entries. Successive calls to this function return
either successive
.B device_deallocate
entries or
.IR NULL .
The
.B getddnam()
function searches for a
.B device_deallocate
entry with
a given device name.
.sp
.LP
The internal representation of a
.B device_deallocate
entry is a
.B devdealloc_t
structure defined in
.RB < bsm/devices.h >
with the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *dd_devname;  /* device allocation name */
char *dd_logout;   /* deallocation action on user logout */
char *dd_boot;     /* deallocation action on system boot */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B
setddent()
function "rewinds" to the beginning of the enumeration
of
.B device_deallocate
entries. Calls to
.B getddnam()
may leave the
enumeration in an indeterminate state, so
.B setddent()
should be called
before the first call to
.BR getddent() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B endddent()
function can be called to indicate that
.B device_deallocate
processing is complete. The library can then close
any
.RB open device_deallocate
file, deallocate any internal storage, and
so forth.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setddfile()
function changes the pathname used by the other
functions for opening the
.B device_deallocate
file, allowing use of
.B device_deallocate
files other than the default file,
.BR /etc/security/device_deallocate .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getddent()
function returns a pointer to a
.B devdealloc_t
if
it successfully enumerates an entry. Otherwise it returns
.IR NULL ,
indicating the end of the enumeration.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getddnam()
function returns a pointer to a
.B devdealloc_t
if
it successfully locates the requested entry. Otherwise it returns
.IR NULL .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/device_deallocate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Administrative file defining parameters for device deallocation.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR free (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getddent()
and
.B getddnam()
functions allocate memory for the
pointers they return. This memory can be deallocated with the
.BR free (3C)
function.
