'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elf32_getehdr 3ELF "19 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "ELF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
elf32_getehdr, elf32_newehdr, elf64_getehdr, elf64_newehdr \- retrieve
class-dependent object file header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lelf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libelf.h>

\fBElf32_Ehdr *\fBelf32_getehdr\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBElf32_Ehdr *\fBelf32_newehdr\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBElf64_Ehdr *\fBelf64_getehdr\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBElf64_Ehdr *\fBelf64_newehdr\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For a 32-bit class file,
.B elf32_getehdr()
returns a pointer to an
.B ELF
header, if one is available for the
.B ELF
descriptor
.IR elf .
If no header exists for the descriptor,
.B elf32_newehdr()
allocates a clean one, but it otherwise behaves the same as
.BR elf32_getehdr() .
It does not allocate a new header if one exists
already. If no header exists for
.BR elf32_getehdr() ,
one cannot be
created for
.BR elf32_newehdr() ,
a system error occurs, the file is not a
32-bit class file, or
.I elf
is
.IR NULL ,
both functions return a null
pointer.
.sp
.LP
For the 64\(mibit class, replace 32 with 64 as appropriate.
.sp
.LP
The header includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unsigned char	e_ident[EI_NIDENT];
Elf32_Half	e_type;
Elf32_Half	e_machine;
Elf32_Word	e_version;
Elf32_Addr	e_entry;
Elf32_Off 	e_phoff;
Elf32_Off 	e_shoff;
Elf32_Word	e_flags;
Elf32_Half	e_ehsize;
Elf32_Half	e_phentsize;
Elf32_Half	e_phnum;
Elf32_Half	e_shentsize;
Elf32_Half	e_shnum;
Elf32_Half	e_shstrndx;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.RB "The " elf32_newehdr() " function automatically sets the " ELF_F_DIRTY 
bit. See
.BR elf_flagdata (3ELF).
.sp
.LP
An application can use
.B elf_getident()
to inspect the identification
bytes from a file.
.sp
.LP
An application can use
.BR elf_getshnum() " and "
.B elf_getshstrndx()
to
obtain section header information. The location of this section header
information differs between standard
.B ELF
files to those that require
Extended Sections.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR elf_begin (3ELF),
.BR elf_flagdata (3ELF),
.BR elf_getident (3ELF),
.BR elf_getshnum (3ELF),
.BR elf_getshstrndx (3ELF),
.BR libelf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
