'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elf32_fsize 3ELF "11 Jul 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "ELF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
elf32_fsize, elf64_fsize \- return the size of an object file type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lelf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libelf.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBelf32_fsize\fR(\fBElf_Type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIcount\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIver\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fBelf64_fsize\fR(\fBElf_Type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIcount\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIver\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B elf32_fsize()
gives the size in bytes of the 32-bit file
representation of
.I count
data objects with the given
.BR type .
The
library uses version
.B ver
to calculate the size. See \fBelf\fR(3ELF)
and
.BR elf_version (3ELF).
.sp
.LP
Constant values are available for the sizes of fundamental types:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBElf_Type	File Size	Memory Size
ELF_T_ADDR	ELF32_FSZ_ADDR	sizeof(Elf32_Addr)
ELF_T_BYTE	1	sizeof(unsigned char)
ELF_T_HALF	ELF32_FSZ_HALF	sizeof(Elf32_Half)
ELT_T_OFF	ELF32_FSZ_OFF	sizeof(Elf32_Off)
ELF_T_SWORD	ELF32_FSZ_SWORD	sizeof(Elf32_Sword)
ELF_T_WORD	ELF32_FSZ_WORD	sizeof(Elf32_Word)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.B elf32_fsize()
returns
.B 0
if the value of
.B type
or
.BR ver
is unknown. See \fBelf32_xlatetof\fR(3ELF) for a list of the \fBtype\fR
values.
.sp
.LP
For the 64\(mibit class, replace 32 with 64 as appropriate.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR elf32_xlatetof (3ELF),
.BR elf_version (3ELF),
.BR libelf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
