'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elf_update 3ELF "11 Jul 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "ELF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
elf_update \- update an ELF descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lelf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libelf.h>

\fBoff_t\fR \fBelf_update\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR, \fBElf_Cmd\fR \fIcmd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B elf_update()
function causes the library to examine the
information associated with an
.B ELF
descriptor,
.IR elf ,
and to
recalculate the structural data needed to generate the file's image.
.sp
.LP
The
.I cmd
argument can have the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELF_C_NULL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This value tells
.B elf_update()
to recalculate various values, updating
only the
.B ELF
descriptor's memory structures. Any modified structures
are flagged with the
.B ELF_F_DIRTY
bit. A program thus can update the
structural information and then reexamine them without changing the file
associated with the
.B ELF
descriptor. Because this does not change the
file, the
.B ELF
descriptor may allow reading, writing, or both reading
and writing (see  \fBelf_begin\fR(3ELF)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELF_C_WRITE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
If
.I cmd
has this value,
.B elf_update()
duplicates its
.B ELF_C_NULL
actions and also writes any ``dirty'' information
associated with the
.B ELF
descriptor to the file. That is, when a
program has used \fBelf_getdata\fR(3ELF) or the \fBelf_flagdata\fR(3ELF)
facilities to supply new (or update existing) information for an \fBELF\fR
descriptor, those data will be examined, coordinated, translated if
necessary (see \fBelf32_xlatetof\fR(3ELF)), and written to the file. When
portions of the file are written, any
.B ELF_F_DIRTY
bits are reset,
indicating those items no longer need to be written to the file (see
.BR elf_flagdata (3ELF)).
The sections' data are written in the order of
their section header entries, and the section header table is written to the
end of the file. When the
.B ELF
descriptor was created with
.BR elf_begin() ,
it must have allowed writing the file. That is, the
.B elf_begin()
command must have been either
.B ELF_C_RDWR
or
.BR ELF_C_WRITE .
.RE

.sp
.LP
If
.B elf_update()
succeeds, it returns the total size of the file image
(not the memory image), in bytes. Otherwise an error occurred, and the
function returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.sp
.LP
When updating the internal structures,
.B elf_update()
sets some members
itself. Members listed below are the application's responsibility and retain
the values given by the program.
.sp
.LP
The following table shows ELF Header members:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
.
MemberNotes

e_ident[EI_DATA]Library controls other \fBe_ident\fR values
e_type
e_machine
e_version
e_entry
e_phoffOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
e_shoffOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
e_flags
e_shstrndx
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following table shows the Program Header members:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
.
MemberNotes

p_typeThe application controls all
p_offsetprogram header entries
p_vaddr
p_paddr
p_filesz
p_memsz
p_flags
p_align
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following table shows the Section Header members:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
.
MemberNotes

sh_name
sh_type
sh_flags
sh_addr
sh_offsetOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
sh_sizeOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
sh_link
sh_info
sh_addralignOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
sh_entsize
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following table shows the Data Descriptor members:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
lw(1.65i) lw(3.85i)
.
MemberNotes

d_buf
d_type
d_size
d_offOnly when \fBELF_F_LAYOUT\fR asserted
d_align
d_version
.TE

.sp
.LP
Note that the program is responsible for two particularly important members
(among others) in the
.B ELF
header. The
.B e_version
member controls
the version of data structures written to the file. If the version is
.BR EV_NONE ,
the library uses its own internal version. The
.B e_ident[EI_DATA]
entry controls the data encoding used in the file. As
a special case, the value may be
.B ELFDATANONE
to request the native
data encoding for the host machine. An error occurs in this case if the
native encoding doesn't match a file encoding known by the library.
.sp
.LP
Further note that the program is responsible for the
.BR sh_entsize
section header member. Although the library sets it for sections with known
types, it cannot reliably know the correct value for all sections.
Consequently, the library relies on the program to provide the values for
unknown section types. If the entry size is unknown or not applicable, the
value should be set to
.BR 0 .
.sp
.LP
When deciding how to build the output file,
.B elf_update()
obeys the
alignments of individual data buffers to create output sections. A section's
most strictly aligned data buffer controls the section's alignment. The
library also inserts padding between buffers, as necessary, to ensure the
proper alignment of each buffer.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR elf32_fsize (3ELF),
.BR elf32_getehdr (3ELF),
.BR elf32_getshdr (3ELF),
.BR elf32_xlatetof (3ELF),
.BR elf_begin (3ELF),
.BR elf_flagdata (3ELF),
.BR elf_getdata (3ELF),
.BR libelf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
As mentioned above, the
.B ELF_C_WRITE
command translates data as
necessary, before writing them to the file. This translation is \fInot\fR
always transparent to the application program. If a program has obtained
pointers to data associated with a file (for example, see
.BR elf32_getehdr (3ELF)
and \fBelf_getdata\fR(3ELF)), the program should
reestablish the pointers after calling
.BR elf_update() .
