'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elf_strptr 3ELF "11 Jul 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "ELF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
elf_strptr \- make a string pointer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lelf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libelf.h>

\fBchar *\fBelf_strptr\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsection\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIoffset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBelf_strptr()\fR function converts a string section \fIoffset\fR to a
string pointer.
.I elf
identifies the file in which the string section
resides, and
.I section
identifies the section table index for the
strings.
.B elf_strptr()
normally returns a pointer to a string, but it
returns a null pointer when
.I elf
is null,
.I section
is invalid or
is not a section of type
.BR SHT_STRTAB ,
the section data cannot be
obtained,
.I offset
is invalid, or an error occurs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample program of calling
.B elf_strptr()
function.
.sp
.LP
A prototype for retrieving section names appears below. The file header
specifies the section name string table in the
.B e_shstrndx
member. The
following code loops through the sections, printing their names.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB/* handle the error */
if ((ehdr = elf32_getehdr(elf)) == 0) {
	return;
}
ndx = ehdr->e_shstrndx;
scn = 0;
while ((scn = elf_nextscn(elf, scn)) != 0) {
	char	*name = 0;
	if ((shdr = elf32_getshdr(scn)) != 0)
                name = elf_strptr(elf, ndx, (size_t)shdr->sh_name);
	printf("'%s'\en", name? name: "(null)");
}\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR elf32_getshdr (3ELF),
.BR elf32_xlatetof (3ELF),
.BR elf_getdata (3ELF),
.BR libelf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
A program may call
.B elf_getdata()
to retrieve an entire string table
section. For some applications, that would be both more efficient and more
convenient than using
.BR elf_strptr() .
