'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elf_getarsym 3ELF "11 Jul 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "ELF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
elf_getarsym \- retrieve archive symbol table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lelf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libelf.h>

\fBElf_Arsym *\fBelf_getarsym\fR(\fBElf *\fIelf\fR, \fBsize_t *\fIptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B elf_getarsym()
function returns a pointer to the archive symbol
table, if one is available for the
.B ELF
descriptor
.IR elf .
Otherwise, the archive doesn't have a symbol table, an error occurred, or
.I elf
was null;
.B elf_getarsym()
then returns a null value. The
symbol table is an array of structures that include the following members.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBchar	*as_name;
size_t	as_off;
unsigned long	as_hash;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
These members have the following semantics:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B as_name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pointer to a null-terminated symbol name resides here.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B as_off
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This value is a byte offset from the beginning of the archive to the
member's header. The archive member residing at the given offset defines the
associated symbol. Values in
.B as_off
may be passed as arguments to
.BR elf_rand() .
See \fBelf_begin\fR(3ELF) to access the desired archive
member.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B as_hash
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This is a hash value for the name, as computed by
.BR elf_hash() .
.RE

.sp
.LP
If
.I ptr
is non-null, the library stores the number of table entries in
the location to which
.I ptr
points. This value is set to
.B 0
when
the return value is
.IR NULL .
The table's last entry, which is included in
the count, has a null
.BR as_name ,
a zero value for
.BR as_off ,
and
.B ~0UL
for
.BR as_hash .
.sp
.LP
The hash value returned is guaranteed not to be the bit pattern of all ones
(
.BR ~0UL ).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar.h (3HEAD),
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR elf_begin (3ELF),
.BR elf_getarhdr (3ELF),
.BR elf_hash (3ELF),
.BR libelf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
