'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_putenv 3PAM "1 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_putenv \- change or add a value to the PAM environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_putenv\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBconst char *\fIname_value\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_putenv()
function sets the value of the
.BR PAM
environment variable
.I name
equal to
.I value
either by altering an
existing
.B PAM
variable or by creating a new one.
.sp
.LP
The
.I name_value
argument points to a string of the form
\fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR. A call to
.B pam_putenv()
does not
immediately change the environment. All
.I name_value
pairs are stored in
the
.B PAM
handle
.IR pamh .
An application such as
.BR login (1)
may
make a call to
.BR pam_getenv "(3PAM) or"
.BR pam_getenvlist (3PAM)
to
retrieve the
.B PAM
environment variables saved in the
.B PAM
handle
and set them in the environment if appropriate.
.B login
will not set
.B PAM
environment values which overwrite the values for
.BR SHELL ,
.BR HOME ,
.BR LOGNAME ,
\fBMAIL\fR,\fB CDPATH\fR,
.BR IFS ,
and
.BR PATH .
Nor will
.B login
set
.B PAM
environment values which
overwrite any value that begins with
.BR LD_ .
.sp
.LP
If
.I name_value
equals
.BR NAME= ,
then the value associated with
.B NAME
in the
.B PAM
handle will be set to an empty value.  If
.I name_value
equals
.BR NAME ,
then the environment variable
.B NAME
will be removed from the
.B PAM
handle.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_putenv()
function may return one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The function returned successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_OPEN_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
.B dlopen()
failed when dynamically loading a service module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SYMBOL_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Symbol not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SERVICE_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Error in service module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SYSTEM_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
System error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_BUF_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Memory buffer error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CONV_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Conversation failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_PERM_DENIED
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Permission denied.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dlopen (3C),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_getenv (3PAM),
.BR pam_getenvlist (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
