'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_open_session 3PAM "13 Oct 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_open_session, pam_close_session \- perform PAM session creation and
termination operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_open_session\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpam_close_session\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_open_session()
function is called after a user has been
successfully authenticated. See
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM)
and
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM).
It is used to notify the session modules that a
new session  has been initiated.  All programs that use the
.BR pam (3PAM)
library should invoke
.B pam_open_session()
when beginning a new session.
Upon termination of this activity,
.B pam_close_session()
should be
invoked to inform
.BR pam "(3PAM) that the session has terminated."
.sp
.LP
The
.I pamh
argument is an authentication handle obtained by a prior
call to
.BR pam_start() .
The following flag may be set in the \fIflags\fR
field for
.B pam_open_session()
and
.BR pam_close_session() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The session service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is returned.  In addition to
the return values defined in \fBpam\fR(3PAM), the following value may be
returned on error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SESSION_ERR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Cannot make or remove an entry for the specified session.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getutxent (3C),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In many instances, the
.B pam_open_session()
and
.B pam_close_session()
calls may be made by different processes. For
example, in UNIX the
.B login
process opens a session, while the
.B init
process closes the session.  In this case,
.B UTMP/WTMP
entries may be used to link the call to
.B pam_close_session()
with an
earlier call to
.BR pam_open_session() .
This is possible because
.B UTMP/WTMP
entries are uniquely identified by a combination of
attributes, including the user login name and device name, which are
accessible through the
.B PAM
handle,
.IR pamh .
The call to
.B pam_open_session()
should precede
.B UTMP/WTMP
entry management,
and the call to
.B pam_close_session()
should follow
.BR UTMP/WTMP
exit management.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
