'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_sm_chauthtok 3PAM "1 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_chauthtok \- service provider implementation for pam_chauthtok
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpam_sm_chauthtok\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBint\fR \fIargc\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fIargv\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In response to a call to
.B pam_chauthtok()
the
.B PAM
framework
calls pam_sm_chauthtok(3PAM) from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file. The password management provider supplies the
back-end functionality for this interface function.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_chauthtok()
function changes the authentication token
associated with a particular user referenced by the authentication handle
.IR pamh .
.sp
.LP
The following flag may be passed to
.BR pam_chauthtok() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should only update those passwords that have aged. If
this flag is not passed, the password service should update all passwords.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_PRELIM_CHECK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should only perform preliminary checks. No passwords
should be updated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_NO_AUTHTOK_CHECK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should not perform conformance checks on the structure
of the password. Conformance checks do not apply to verification that the
same password was entered during both passes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should update passwords.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Note that
.B PAM_PRELIM_CHECK
and
.B PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK
cannot be set
at the same time.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of the call, the authentication token of the
user will be ready for change or will be changed, depending upon the flag,
in accordance with the authentication scheme configured within the system.
.sp
.LP
The
.I argc
argument represents the number of module options passed in
from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
The
.I argv
argument
specifies the module options, which are interpreted and processed by the
password management service. Please refer to the specific module man pages
for the various available
.IR options .
.sp
.LP
It is the responsibility of
.B pam_sm_chauthtok()
to determine if the
.RB "new password meets certain strength requirements." " pam_sm_chauthtok()"
may continue to re-prompt the user (for a limited number of times) for a new
password until the password entered meets the strength requirements.
.sp
.LP
Before returning,
.B pam_sm_chauthtok()
should call
.B pam_get_item()
and retrieve both
.B PAM_AUTHTOK
and
.BR PAM_OLDAUTHTOK .
If both are
.IR NULL ,
.B pam_sm_chauthtok()
should set them to the new and old passwords as entered by the user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
must be returned. The
following values may also be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_PERM_DENIED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
No permission.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_ERR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token manipulation error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_RECOVERY_ERR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Old authentication token cannot be recovered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_LOCK_BUSY
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token lock busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_DISABLE_AGING
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token aging disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
User unknown to password service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_TRY_AGAIN
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Preliminary check by password service failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ping (1M),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_chauthtok (3PAM),
.BR pam_get_data (3PAM),
.BR pam_get_item (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_data (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B PAM
framework invokes the password services twice. The first time
the modules are invoked with the flag,
.BR PAM_PRELIM_CHECK .
During this
stage, the password modules should only perform preliminary checks. For
example, they may
.B ping
remote name services to see if they are ready
for updates. If a password module detects a transient error such as a remote
name service temporarily down, it should return
.B PAM_TRY_AGAIN
to the
.B PAM
framework, which will immediately return the error back to the
application. If all password modules pass the preliminary check, the
.B PAM
framework invokes the password services again with the flag,
.BR PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK .
During this stage, each password module should
proceed to update the appropriate password. Any error will again be reported
back to application.
.sp
.LP
If a service module receives the flag
.BR PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK ,
it
should check whether the password has aged or expired. If the password has
aged or expired, then the service module should proceed to update the
password. If the status indicates that the password has not yet aged or
expired, then the password module should return
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
.sp
.LP
If a user's password has aged or expired, a
.B PAM
account module could
save this information as state in the authentication handle,
.IR pamh ,
using
.BR pam_set_data() .
The related password management module could
retrieve this information using
.B pam_get_data()
to determine whether or
not it should prompt the user to update the password for this particular
module.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is set and a service module
does not recognize the type, the service module does not process any
information, and returns
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
If the
.BR PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is not set, a service module performs its default action.
