'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_sm_setcred 3PAM "18 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_setcred \- service provider implementation for pam_setcred
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBint\fR \fIargc\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fIargv\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In response to a call to
.BR pam_setcred (3PAM),
the
.B PAM
framework
calls
.B pam_sm_setcred()
from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file.  The authentication provider supplies the back-end
functionality for this interface function.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_setcred()
function is called to set the credentials of the
current user associated with the authentication handle,
.IR pamh .
The
following flags may be set in the
.I flags
field.  Note that the first
four flags are mutually exclusive:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_ESTABLISH_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Set user credentials for the authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DELETE_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Delete user credentials associated with the authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Reinitialize user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_REFRESH_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Extend lifetime of user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Authentication service should not generate messages
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no flag is set,
.B "PAM_ESTABLISH _CRED"
is used as the
default.
.sp
.LP
The
.I argc
argument represents the number of module options passed in
from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the
module options, which are interpreted and processed by the authentication
service. If an unknown option is passed to the  module, an error should be
logged and the option ignored.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B PAM_SILENT
flag is not set, then
.B pam_sm_setcred()
should print any failure status from the corresponding
.B pam_sm_authenticate()
function using the conversation function.
.sp
.LP
The authentication status (success or reason for failure) is saved as
module-specific state in the authentication handle by the authentication
module. The status should be retrieved using
.BR pam_get_data() ,
and used
to determine if user credentials should be set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
should be returned. The
following values may also be returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_UNAVAIL
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Underlying authentication service can not retrieve user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User credentials have expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User unknown to the authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Failure in setting user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_IGNORE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Ignore underlying authentication module regardless of whether the control
flag is \fIrequired\fR,\fIoptional\fR, or  \fIsufficient\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_get_data (3PAM)
.BR pam_setcred (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_setcred()
function is passed the same module options that
are used by
.BR pam_sm_authenticate() .
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is set and a service module
does not recognize the type, the service module does not process any
information, and returns
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
If the
.BR PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is not set, a service module performs its default action.
