'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_chauthtok 3PAM "1 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_chauthtok \- perform password related functions within the PAM
framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpam_chauthtok\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_chauthtok()
function is called to change the authentication
token associated with a particular user referenced by the authentication
handle
.IR pamh .
.sp
.LP
The following flag may be passed in to
.BR pam_chauthtok() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should only update those passwords that have aged. If
this flag is not passed, all password services should update their
passwords.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_NO_AUTHTOK_CHECK
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The password service should not perform conformance checks on the password
entered.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of the call, the authentication token of the
user will be changed in accordance with the password service configured in
the system through
.BR pam.conf (4).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is returned. In addition to
the error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM), the following values
may be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_PERM_DENIED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
No permission.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_ERR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token manipulation error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_RECOVERY_ERR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication information cannot be recovered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_LOCK_BUSY
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token lock busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_DISABLE_AGING
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication token aging disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
User unknown to password service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_TRY_AGAIN
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Preliminary check by password service failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.B attributes
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The flag
.B PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK
is typically used by a
.B login
application which has determined that the user's password has
aged or expired. Before allowing the user to login, the \fBlogin\fR
application may invoke
.B pam_chauthtok()
with this flag to allow the
user to update the password. Typically, applications such as
.BR passwd (1)
should not use this flag.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_chauthtok()
functions performs a preliminary check before
attempting to update passwords. This check is performed for each password
module in the stack as listed in
.BR pam.conf (4).
The check may include
pinging remote name services to determine if they are available. If
.B pam_chauthtok()
returns
.BR PAM_TRY_AGAIN ,
then the check has
failed, and passwords are not updated.
.sp
.LP
The flag
.B PAM_NO_AUTHTOK_CHECK
is typically used by programs that
allow an administrator to bypass various password conformance checks when
setting a password for a user.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
