'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_acct_mgmt 3PAM "13 Oct 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_acct_mgmt \- perform PAM account validation procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_acct_mgmt()
function is called to determine if the current
user's account is valid.  It checks for password and account expiration, and
verifies access hour restrictions. This function is typically called after
the user has been authenticated with
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM).
.sp
.LP
The
.I pamh
argument is an authentication handle obtained by a prior
call to
.BR pam_start() .
The following flags may be set in the \fIflags\fR
field:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The account management service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The account management service should return
.B PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD
if
the user has a null authentication token.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is returned. In addition to
the error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM), the following values
may be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User not known to underlying account management module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Authentication failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
New authentication token required. This is normally returned if the machine
security policies require that the password should be changed because the
password is
.B NULL
or has aged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_ACCT_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User account has expired.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
