'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_setcred 3PAM "10 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_setcred \- modify or delete user credentials for an authentication
service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_setcred\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_setcred()
function is used to establish, modify, or delete
user credentials. It is typically called after the user has been
authenticated and after a session has been validated. See
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM)
and
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM).
.sp
.LP
The user is specified by a prior call to
.B pam_start()
or
.BR pam_set_item() ,
and is referenced by the authentication handle,
.IR pamh .
The following flags may be set in the
.I flags
field.  Note
that the first four flags are mutually exclusive:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_ESTABLISH_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Set user credentials for an authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DELETE_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Delete user credentials associated with an authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Reinitialize user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_REFRESH_CRED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Extend lifetime of user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Authentication service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no flag is set,
.B PAM_ESTABLISH_CRED
is used as the default.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B pam_setcred()
returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS .
In addition
to the error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM) the following values
may be returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_UNAVAIL
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Underlying authentication service can not retrieve user credentials
unavailable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User credentials expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User unknown to underlying authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Failure setting user credentials.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Committed
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_item (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
