'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_sm_acct_mgmt 3PAM "18 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_acct_mgmt \- service provider implementation for pam_acct_mgmt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBint\fR \fIargc\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fIargv\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In response to a call to
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM),
the
.B PAM
framework calls
.B pam_sm_acct_mgmt()
from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file. The account management provider supplies the
back-end functionality for this interface function. Applications should not
call this
.B API
directly.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_acct_mgmt()
function determines whether or not the current
user's account and password are valid.   This includes checking for password
and account expiration, and valid login times. The user in question is
specified by a prior call to
.BR pam_start() ,
and is referenced by the
authentication handle,
.IR pamh ,
which is passed as the first argument to
.BR pam_sm_acct_mgmt() .
The following flags may be set in the
.I flags
field:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The account management service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The account management service should return
.B PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD
if
the user has a null authentication token.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.I argc
argument represents the number of module options passed in
from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the
module options, which are interpreted and processed by the account
management service.  Please refer to the specific module man pages for the
various available
.IR options .
If an unknown option is passed to the
module, an error should be logged through
.BR syslog (3C)
and the option
ignored.
.sp
.LP
If an account management module determines that the user password has aged
or expired, it should save this information as state in the authentication
handle,
.IR pamh ,
using
.BR pam_set_data() .
.B pam_chauthok()
uses
this information to determine which passwords have expired.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there are no restrictions to logging in,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is returned.
The following error values may also be returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User not known to underlying authentication module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
New authentication token required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_ACCT_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User account has expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_PERM_DENIED
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User denied access to account at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_IGNORE
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Ignore underlying account module regardless of whether the control flag is
.I required, optional
or
.IR sufficient .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_data (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is set and a service module
does not recognize the type, the service module does not process any
information, and returns
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
If the
.BR PAM_REPOSITORY
.I item_type
is not set, a service module performs its default action.
