'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_authenticate 3PAM "27 Jan 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_authenticate \- perform authentication within the PAM framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>


\fBint\fR \fBpam_authenticate\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_authenticate()
function is called to authenticate the current
user. The user is usually required to enter a password or similar
authentication token depending upon the authentication service configured
within the system. The user in question should have been specified by a
prior call to
.B pam_start()
or
.BR pam_set_item() .
.sp
.LP
The following flags may be set in the
.I flags
field:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SILENT
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Authentication service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The authentication service should return
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
if the user
has a null authentication token.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is returned.  In addition to
the error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM), the following values
may be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Authentication failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_INSUFFICIENT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Cannot access authentication data due to insufficient credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHINFO_UNAVAIL
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Underlying authentication service cannot retrieve authentication
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
User not known to the underlying authentication module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_MAXTRIES
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
An authentication service has maintained a retry count which has been
reached. No further retries should be attempted.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_open_session (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_item (3PAM),
.BR pam_setcred (3PAM),
.BR pam_start (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In the case of authentication failures due to an incorrect username or
password, it is the responsibility of the application to retry
.B pam_authenticate()
and to maintain the retry count. An authentication
service module may implement an internal retry count and return an error
.B PAM_MAXTRIES
if the module does not want the application to retry.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B PAM
framework cannot load the authentication module, then it
will return
.BR PAM_ABORT .
This indicates a serious failure, and the
application should not attempt to retry the authentication.
.sp
.LP
For security reasons, the location of authentication failures is hidden
from the user.   Thus, if several authentication services are stacked and a
single service fails,
.B pam_authenticate()
requires that the user
re-authenticate each of the services.
.sp
.LP
A null authentication token in the authentication database will result in
successful authentication unless
.B PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
was
specified. In such cases, there will be no prompt to the user to enter an
authentication token.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
