'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_getenv 3PAM "13 Oct 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "PAM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pam_getenv \- returns the value for a PAM environment name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBchar *\fBpam_getenv\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fIpamh\fR, \fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_getenv()
function searches the
.B PAM
handle
.IR pamh
for a value associated with
.IR name .
If a value is present,
.B pam_getenv()
makes a copy of the value and returns a pointer to the
copy back to the calling application. If no such entry exists,
.B pam_getenv()
returns
.IR NULL .
It is the responsibility of the
calling application to free the memory returned by
.BR pam_getenv() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B pam_getenv()
returns a copy of the
.IR value
associated with
.I name
in the
.B PAM
handle; otherwise, it returns a
.I NULL
pointer.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Stable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_getenvlist (3PAM),
.BR pam_putenv (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
