'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH du 1B "5 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
du \- display the number of disk blocks used per directory or file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/du\fR [\fB-adkLr\fR] [\fB-o\fR | \fB-s\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B du
utility gives the number of kilobytes contained in all files
and, recursively, directories within each specified directory or file
\fIfilename\fR. If \fIfilename\fR is missing, `\fB\&.\fR' (the current
directory) is used.
.sp
.LP
A file that has multiple links to it is only counted once.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Generates an entry for each file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Does not cross file system boundaries. For example, \fBdu -d\fR
\fB/\fR reports usage only on the root partition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Writes the files sizes in units of 1024  bytes, rather than the default
512-byte units.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Processes symbolic links by using the file or directory that the symbolic
link references, rather than the link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Does not add child directories' usage to a parent's total. Without this
option, the usage listed for a particular directory is the space taken by
the files in that directory, as well as the files in all directories beneath
it. This option does nothing if the
.B -s
option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Generates messages about directories that cannot be read, files that cannot
be opened, and so forth, rather than being silent (the default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Only displays the grand total for each of the specified \fIfilename\fRs.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Entries are generated only for each directory in the absence of options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Showing usage of all subdirectories in a directory
.sp
.LP
This example uses
.B du
in a directory. The
.BR pwd (1)
command was
used to identify the directory, then
.B du
was used to show the usage of
all the subdirectories in that directory. The grand total for the directory
is the last entry in the display:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpwd\fR
/usr/ralph/misc
example% \fBdu\fR
5      ./jokes
33     ./squash
44     ./tech.papers/lpr.document
217    ./tech.papers/new.manager
401    ./tech.papers
144    ./memos
80     ./letters
388    ./window
93     ./messages
15     ./useful.news
1211   .
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
If any of the
.B LC_*
variables, that is,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_NUMERIC ,
and
\fBLC_MONETARY\fR (see
.BR environ (5)),
are not set in the environment,
the operational behavior of
.B du
for each corresponding locale category
is determined by the value of the
.B LANG
environment variable. If
\fBLC_ALL\fR is set, its contents are used to override both the \fBLANG\fR
and the other
.B LC_*
variables. If none of the above variables is set in
the environment, the "C" (U.S. style) locale determines how \fBdu\fR
behaves.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_CTYPE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Determines how
.B du
handles characters. When
.B LC_CTYPE
is set to
a valid value,
.B du
can display and handle text and filenames containing
valid characters for that locale.
.B du
can display and handle Extended
Unix Code (EUC) characters where any individual character can be 1, 2, or 3
bytes wide.
.B du
can also handle EUC characters of 1, 2, or more column
widths. In the "C" locale, only characters from ISO 8859-1 are valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_MESSAGES
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Determines how diagnostic and informative messages are presented. This
includes the language and style of the messages, and the correct form of
affirmative and negative responses.  In the "C" locale, the messages are
presented in the default form found in the program itself (in most cases,
U.S. English).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pwd (1),
.BR df (1M),
.BR du (1),
.BR quot (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Filename arguments that are not directory names are ignored, unless you use
.BR -a .
.sp
.LP
If there are too many distinct linked files,
.B du
will count the excess
files more than once.
