'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH exportfs 1B "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
exportfs \- translates exportfs options to share/unshare commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/exportfs\fR [\fB-aiuv\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR] [\fIpathname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B exportfs
translates SunOS 4.x
.B exportfs
options to the
.RB "corresponding " share / unshare " options and invokes"
.BR share / unshare
with the translated options.
.sp
.LP
With no options or arguments,
.B exportfs
invokes
.B share
to print
out the list of all currently shared
.B NFS
filesystems.
.sp
.LP
.B exportfs
is the BSD/Compatibility Package command of
.BR share (1M)
and
.BR unshare (1M).
Use
\fBshare\fR(1M)/
.BR unshare (1M)
whenever
possible.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Invokes
.BR shareall (1M),
or if \fB-u\fR is specified, invokes
.BR unshareall (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Ignore options in
.BR /etc/dfs/dfstab .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Invokes
.BR unshare "(1M) on"
.IR pathname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Verbose.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " options"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specify a comma-separated list of optional characteristics for the
filesystems being exported.
.B exportfs
translates
.I options
to
\fBshare\fR-equivalent options. (see \fBshare\fR(1M) for information about
individual options).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfssu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR share (1M),
.BR shareall (1M),
.BR unshare (1M),
.BR unshareall (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
