'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fastboot 1B "28 Feb 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
fastboot, fasthalt \- reboot/halt the system without checking the disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/fastboot\fR [\fIboot-options\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/fasthalt\fR [\fIhalt-options\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B fastboot
and
.B fasthalt
are shell scripts that invoke
.B reboot
and
.B halt
with the proper arguments.
.sp
.LP
These commands are provided for compatibility only.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fsck (1M),
.BR halt (1M),
.BR init (1M),
.BR reboot (1M),
.BR init.d (4),
.BR attributes (5)
