'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH file 1B "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
file \- determine the type of a file by examining its contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/file\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIffile\fR] [\fB-cL\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImfile\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B file
performs a series of tests on each
.I filename
in an attempt
to determine what it contains. If the contents of a file appear to be
.B ASCII
text,
.B file
examines the first 512 bytes and tries to guess
its language.
.sp
.LP
.B file
uses the file
.B /etc/magic
to identify files that have some
sort of
.IR "magic number" ,
that is, any file containing a numeric or string
constant that indicates its type.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Check for format errors in the magic number file. For reasons of
efficiency, this validation is not normally carried out. No file
type-checking is done under
.BR -c .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I ffile
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Get a list of filenames to identify from 
.I ffile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If a file is a symbolic link, test the file the link references rather than
the link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " mfile"
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Use
.I mfile
as the name of an alternate magic number file.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.B file
on all the files in a specific user's
directory.
.sp
.LP
This example illustrates the use of
.B file
on all the files in a
specific user's directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpwd
/usr/blort/misc\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/ucb/file  *\fR

code:           mc68020 demand paged executable
code.c:         c program text
counts:         ascii text
doc:            roff,nroff, or eqn input text
empty.file:     empty
libz:           archive random library
memos:          directory
project:        symboliclink to /usr/project
script:         executable shell script
titles:         ascii text
s5.stuff:       cpio archive


example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The environment variables
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LANG ,
and
.B LC_default
control the character classification throughout
.BR file .
On entry to
.BR file ,
these environment variables are checked in the following order:
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LANG ,
and
.BR LC_default .
When a valid value is
found, remaining environment variables for character classification are
ignored. For example, a new setting for
.B LANG
does not override the
current valid character classification rules of
.BR LC_CTYPE .
When none of
the values is valid, the shell character classification defaults to the
POSIX.1 "C"  locale.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/magic
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR magic (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B file
often makes mistakes.  In particular, it often suggests that
command files are C programs.
.sp
.LP
.B file
does not recognize Pascal or LISP.
