'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH groups 1B "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
groups \- display a user's group memberships
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/groups\fR [\fIuser\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
With no arguments,
.B groups
displays the groups to which you belong;
else it displays the groups to which the
.B user
belongs. Each user
belongs to a group specified in the password file
.B /etc/passwd
and
possibly to other groups as specified in the file
.BR /etc/group .
If you
do not own a file but belong to the group which it is owned by then you are
granted group access to the file.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getgroups (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This command is obsolete.
