'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH grpck 1B "10 Jan 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
grpck \- check group database entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/grpck\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B grpck
utility checks that a file in
.BR group (4)
does not
contain any errors; it checks the
.B /etc/group
file by default.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/group
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR groups (1),
.BR group (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Too many/few fields
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An entry in the group file does not have the proper number of fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B No group name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group name field of an entry is empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Bad character(s) in group name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group name in an entry contains characters other than lower-case
letters and digits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Invalid GID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group ID field in an entry is not numeric or is greater than 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Null login name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name in the list of login names in an entry is null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Logname not found in password file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name in the list of login names in an entry is not in the password
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Line too long
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A line (including the newline character) in the group file exceeds the
maximum length of 512 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Duplicate logname entry
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name appears more than once in the list of login names for a group
file entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Out of memory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The program cannot allocate memory in order to continue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Maximum groups exceeded for logname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name's group membership exceeds the maximum,
.BR NGROUPS_MAX .
.RE

