'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ln 1B "11 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
ln \- make hard or symbolic links to files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/ln\fR [\fB-fs\fR] \fIfilename\fR [\fIlinkname\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/ln\fR [\fB-fs\fR] \fIpathname\fR.\|.\|. \fIdirectory\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B /usr/ucb/ln
utility creates an additional directory entry, called
a link, to a file or directory. Any number of links can be assigned to a
file. The number of links does not affect other file attributes such as
size, protections, data, etc.
.sp
.LP
.I filename
is the name of the original file or directory.
.I linkname
is the new name to associate with the file or filename.  If
.I linkname
is omitted, the last component of
.I filename
is used as
the name of the link.
.sp
.LP
If the last argument is the name of a directory, symbolic links are made in
that directory for each
.I pathname
argument;
.B /usr/ucb/ln
uses the
last component of each
.I pathname
as the name of each link in the named
.IR directory .
.sp
.LP
A hard link (the default) is a standard directory entry just like the one
made when the file was created.  Hard links can only be made to existing
files. Hard links cannot be made across file systems (disk partitions,
mounted file systems).  To remove a file, all hard links to it must be
removed, including the name by which it was first created; removing the last
hard link releases the inode associated with the file.
.sp
.LP
A symbolic link, made with the
.B -s
option, is a special directory
entry that points to another named file. Symbolic links can span file
systems and point to directories.  In fact, you can create a symbolic link
that points to a file that is currently absent from the file system;
removing the file that it points to does not affect or alter the symbolic
link itself.
.sp
.LP
A symbolic link to a directory behaves differently than you might expect in
certain cases.  While an
.BR ls (1)
on such a link displays the files in
the pointed-to directory, an `\fBls -l\fR' displays information about
the link itself:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR dir link
example% ls link
file1 file2 file3 file4
example% ls \fB-l\fR link
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            7 Jan 11 23:27 link \(-> dir
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When you use
.BR cd (1)
to change to a directory through a symbolic link,
you wind up in the pointed-to location within the file system.  This means
that the parent of the new working directory is not the parent of the
symbolic link, but rather, the parent of the pointed-to directory.  For
instance, in the following case the final working directory is \fB/usr\fR
and not
.BR /home/user/linktest .
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% pwd
/home/user/linktest
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR /var/tmp symlink
example% cd symlink
example% cd .\|.
example% pwd
/usr
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
C shell user's can avoid any resulting navigation problems by using the
.B pushd
and
.B popd
built-in commands instead of
.BR cd .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force a hard link to a directory. This option is only available to the
super-user, and should be used with extreme caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Create a symbolic link or links.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B ln
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
The
.B /usr/ucb/ln
command
.sp
.LP
The commands below illustrate the effects of the different forms of the
.B /usr/ucb/ln
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% /usr/ucb/ln file link
example% ls \fB-F\fR file link
file   link
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR file symlink
example% ls \fB-F\fR file symlink
file   symlink@
example% ls \fB-li\fR file link symlink
 10606 -rw-r--r--  2 user            0 Jan 12 00:06 file
 10606 -rw-r--r--  2 user            0 Jan 12 00:06 link
 10607 lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            4 Jan 12 00:06 symlink \(-> file
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR nonesuch devoid
example% ls \fB-F\fR devoid
devoid@
example% cat devoid
devoid: No such file or directory
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR /proto/bin/* /tmp/bin
example% ls \fB-F\fR /proto/bin /tmp/bin
/proto/bin:
x*      y*      z*

/tmp/bin:
x@      y@      z@
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cp (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR link (2),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR symlink (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When the last argument is a directory, simple basenames should not be used
for
.I pathname
arguments.  If a basename is used, the resulting symbolic
link points to itself:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR file /tmp
example% ls \fB-l\fR /tmp/file
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            4 Jan 12 00:16 /tmp/file \(-> file
example% cat /tmp/file
/tmp/file: Too many levels of symbolic links
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To avoid this problem, use full pathnames, or prepend a reference to the
.B PWD
variable to files in the working directory:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rm /tmp/file
example% /usr/ucb/ln \fB-s\fR $PWD/file /tmp
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user 4       Jan 12 00:16 /tmp/file \(->
/home/user/subdir/file
.fi
.in -2
.sp

