'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH printenv 1B "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
printenv \- display environment variables currently set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/printenv\fR [\fIvariable\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B printenv
prints out the values of the variables in the environment.
If a
.I variable
is specified, only its value is printed.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR tset (1B),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
If a
.I variable
is specified and it is not defined in the environment,
.B printenv
returns an exit status of
.BR 1 .
