'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tset 1B "15 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
tset, reset \- establish or restore terminal characteristics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtset\fR [\fB-InQrs\fR] [\fB-e\fIc\fR] [\fB-k\fIc\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR [\fIport-ID\fR [\fIbaudrate\fR] : \fItype\fR].\|.\|.] [\fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBreset\fR [\fB-\fR] [\fB-e\fIc\fR] [\fB-I\fR] [\fB-k\fIc\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR [\fIindent\fR] [\fItest\fR \fIbaudrate\fR] : \fItype\fR].\|.\|. [\fItype\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tset
utility sets up your terminal, typically when you first log
in. It does terminal dependent processing such as setting erase and kill
characters, setting or resetting delays, sending any sequences needed to
properly initialized the terminal, and the like.
.B tset
first determines
the
.B type
of terminal involved, and then does necessary initializations
and mode settings. If a port is not wired permanently to a specific terminal
(not hardwired) it is given an appropriate generic identifier such as
.BR dialup .
.sp
.LP
.B reset
clears the terminal settings by turning off  CBREAK and RAW
modes, output delays and parity checking, turns on NEWLINE translation, echo
and TAB expansion, and restores undefined special characters to their
default state.   It then sets the modes as usual, based on the terminal type
(which will probably override some of the above). See
.BR stty (1)
for more
information. All arguments to
.B tset
may be used with
.BR reset .
.B reset
also uses
.B rs=
and
.B rf=
to reset the initialization
string and file. This is useful after a program dies and leaves the terminal
in a funny state. Often in this situation, characters will not echo as you
type them. You may have to type LINEFEED
.B reset
LINEFEED since RETURN
may not work.
.sp
.LP
When no arguments are specified,
.B tset
reads the terminal type from
the
.B TERM
environment variable and re-initializes the terminal, and
performs initialization of mode, environment and other options at login time
to determine the terminal type and set up terminal modes.
.sp
.LP
When used in a startup script (\fB\&.profile\fR for
.BR sh (1)
users or
\fB\&.login\fR for
.BR csh (1)
users) it is desirable to give information
about the type of terminal you will usually use on ports that are not
hardwired. Any of the alternate generic names given in the file
.B /etc/termcap
are possible identifiers. Refer to the
.B -m
option
below for more information. If no mapping applies and a final
.B type
option, not preceded by a
.BR -m ,
is given on the command line then that
type is used.
.sp
.LP
It is usually desirable to return the terminal type, as finally determined
by
.BR tset ,
and information about the terminal's capabilities, to a
shell's environment. This can be done using the
.BR \(mi ,
.BR -s ,
or
.B -S
options.
.sp
.LP
For the Bourne shell, put this command in your \fB\&.profile\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
eval `tset \fB-s\fR \fIoptions.\|.\|.\fR`
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or using the C shell, put these commands in your \fB\&.login\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
set noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fR \fIoptions.\|.\|.\fB`\fRunset noglob
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
With the C shell, it is also convenient to make an alias in your
\fB\&.cshrc\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
alias ts 'eval `tset \fB-s\fR \e!*`'
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This also allows the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ts 2621
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
to be invoked at any time to set the terminal and environment. It is not
possible to get this aliasing effect with a Bourne shell script, because
shell scripts cannot set the environment of their parent. If a process could
set its parent's environment, none of this nonsense would be necessary in
the first place.
.sp
.LP
Once the terminal type is known,
.B tset
sets the terminal driver mode.
This normally involves sending an initialization sequence to the terminal,
setting the single character erase (and optionally the line-kill (full line
erase)) characters, and setting special character delays. TAB and NEWLINE
expansion are turned off during transmission of the terminal initialization
sequence.
.sp
.LP
On terminals that can backspace but not overstrike (such as a CRT), and
when the erase character is
.RB ` # ',
the erase character is changed as if
.B -e
had been used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The name of the terminal finally decided upon is output on the standard
output. This is intended to be captured by the shell and placed in the
.B TERM
environment variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -e c
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Set the erase character to be the named character
.I c
on all terminals.
Default is the BACKSPACE key on the keyboard, usually
.B ^H
(CTRL-H). The
character
.I c
can either be typed directly, or entered using the
circumflex-character notation used here.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -i c
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Set the interrupt character to be the named character
.I c
on all
terminals. Default is
.B ^C
(CTRL-C). The character
.I c
can either be
typed directly, or entered using the circumflex-character notation used
here.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Suppress transmitting terminal-initialization strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -k c
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Set the line kill character to be the named character
.I c
on all
terminals. Default is
.B ^U
(CTRL-U). The kill character is left alone if
.B -k
is not specified. Control characters can be specified by prefixing
the alphabetical character with a circumflex (as in CTRL-U) instead of
entering the actual control key itself.  This allows you to specify control
keys that are currently assigned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Specify that the new tty driver modes should be initialized for this
terminal. Probably useless since
.B "stty new"
is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.RB "Suppress printing the `" "Erase set to" "' and `" "Kill set to" '
messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
In addition to other actions, reports the terminal type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Output commands to set and export
.BR TERM .
This can be used with
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBset noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fB .\|.\|.`
unset noglob\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

to bring the terminal information into the environment. Doing so makes
programs such as
.BR vi (1)
start up faster. If the
.B SHELL
environment
variable ends with
.BR csh ,
C shell commands are output, otherwise Bourne
shell commands are output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
[ \fIport-ID\fR [ \fIbaudrate\fR ]
.B : type
]
\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify (map) a terminal type when connected to a generic port (such as
.I dialup
or
.IR plugboard )
identified by
.IR port-ID .
The
.I baudrate
argument can be used to check the baudrate of the port and
set the terminal type accordingly.  The target rate is prefixed by any
combination of the following operators to specify the conditions under which
the mapping is made:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Greater than
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B @
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Equals or ``at''
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Less than
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
It is not the case that (negates the above operators)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Prompt for the terminal type.  If no response is given, then
.B type
is
selected by default.
.RE

In the following example, the terminal type is set to
.B adm3a
if the
port is a dialup with a speed of greater than 300 or to
.B dw2
if the
port is a dialup at 300 baud or less. In the third case, the question mark
preceding the terminal type indicates that the user is to verify the type
desired. A
.I NULL
response indicates that the named type is correct.
Otherwise, the user's response is taken to be the type desired.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBtset \fB-m\fB 'dialup>300:adm3a' \fB-m\fB 'dialup:dw2' \fB-m\fB 'plugboard:?adm3a'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To prevent interpretation as metacharacters, the entire argument to
.B -m
should be enclosed in single quotes.   When using the C shell,
exclamation points should be preceded by a backslash (\e).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
These examples all use the `\fB\(mi\fR\&' option.  A typical use of
.B tset
in a \fB\&.profile\fR or \fB\&.login\fR will also use the
.B -e
and
.B -k
options, and often the
.B -n
or
.B -Q
options as
well. These options have been omitted here to keep the examples short.
.LP
.B Example 1
Selecting a terminal
.sp
.LP
To select a 2621, you might put the following sequence of commands in your
\fB\&.login\fR file (or \fB\&.profile\fR for Bourne shell users).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBset noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fB 2621`
unset noglob\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you want to make the selection based only on the baud rate, you might
use the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBset noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fB \fB-m\fB '>1200:wy' 2621`
unset noglob\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Selecting terminals according to speed or baud rate
.sp
.LP
If you have a switch which connects to various ports (making it impractical
to identify which port you may be connected to), and use various terminals
from time to time, you can select from among those terminals according to
the
.I speed
or baud rate. In the example below,
.B tset
will prompt
you for a terminal type if the baud rate is greater than 1200 (say, 9600 for
a terminal connected by an RS-232 line), and use a Wyse\(rg 50 by default.
If the baud rate is less than or equal to 1200, it will select a 2621. Note
the placement of the question mark, and the quotes to protect the
.B >
and
.B ?
from interpretation by the shell.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBset noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fB \fB-m\fB 'switch>1200:?wy' \fB-m\fB 'switch<=1200:2621'`
unset noglob\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Selecting the terminal used most often
.sp
.LP
The following entry is appropriate if you always dial up, always at the
same baud rate, on many different kinds of terminals, and the terminal you
use most often is an
.BR adm3a .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBset noglob
eval `tset \fB-s\fB ?adm3a`
unset noglob\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Selecting a terminal with specific settings
.sp
.LP
The following example quietly sets the erase character to
.BR BACKSPACE,
and kill to
.B CTRL-U.
If the port is switched, it selects a Concept\(tm
100 for speeds less than or equal to 1200, and asks for the terminal type
otherwise (the default in this case is a Wyse 50). If the port is a direct
dialup, it selects Concept 100 as the terminal type. If logging in over the
.B ARPANET,
the terminal type selected is a Datamedia\(rg 2500 terminal
or emulator.  Note the backslash escaping the
.B NEWLINE
at the end of
the first line in the example.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
set noglob
eval `tset \fB-e\fR \fB-k\fR^U \fB-Q\fR \fB-s\fR \fB-m\fR 'switch<=1200:concept100' \fB-m\fR\e
   'switch:?wy' \fB-m\fR dialup:concept100 \fB-m\fR arpanet:dm2500`
unset noglob
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.login\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.profile\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/termcap
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B tset
command is one of the first commands a user must master when
getting started on a
.B UNIX
system. Unfortunately, it is one of the most
complex, largely because of the extra effort the user must go through to get
the environment of the login shell set. Something needs to be done to make
all this simpler, either the
.B login
program should do this stuff, or a
default shell alias should be made, or a way to set the environment of the
parent should exist.
.sp
.LP
This program cannot intuit personal choices for erase, interrupt and line
kill characters, so it leaves these set to the local system standards.
.sp
.LP
It could well be argued that the shell should be responsible for ensuring
that the terminal remains in a sane state; this would eliminate the need for
the
.B reset
program.
