'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sockio 7I "8 Nov 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Ioctl Requests"
.SH NAME
sockio \- ioctls that operate directly on sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sockio.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ioctls
listed in this manual page apply directly to sockets,
independent of any underlying protocol. The
.B setsockopt()
call (see
.BR getsockopt (3SOCKET))
is the primary method for operating on sockets,
rather than on the underlying protocol or network interface.
.BR ioctl s
for a specific network interface or protocol are documented in the manual
page for that interface or protocol.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIOCSPGRP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR int .
.RB "Set the process-group" " ID"
that will subsequently receive
.B SIGIO
or
.B SIGURG
signals for the
socket referred to by the descriptor passed to
.B ioctl
to the value of
that
.BR int .
The argument must be either positive (in which case it must
be a process
.B ID)
or negative (in which case it must be a process
group).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIOCGPGRP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR int .
Set the value of that
.BR int
to the process-group
.B ID
that is receiving
.B SIGIO
or
.BR SIGURG
signals for the socket referred to by the descriptor passed to
.BR ioctl .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIOCCATMARK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR int .
Set the value of that
.BR int
to
.B 1
if the read pointer for the socket referred to by the descriptor
passed to
.B ioctl
points to a mark in the data stream for an out-of-band
message. Set the value of that
.B int
to
.B 0
if the read pointer for
the socket referred to by the descriptor passed to
.B ioctl
does not
point to a mark in the data stream for an  out-of-band message.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR getsockopt (3SOCKET)
