'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_parse_uri 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_parse_uri, sip_free_parsed_uri \- parse a URI and free a parsed URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBsip_uri_t\fR \fIsip_parse_uri\fR(\fBsip_str_t *\fIuri_str\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_free_parsed_uri\fR(\fBsip_uri_t\fR \fIsip_uri\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type
.IR sip_str_t ,
\fIsip_str_t\fR is supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
     char *sip_str_ptr;
     int  sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I sip_str_ptr
parameter points to the start of the returned value
and
.I sip_str_len
supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
For example, given the following request line in a
.B SIP
message input
to
.BR sip_get_request_uri_str() :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
INVITE sip:marconi@radio.org SIP/2.0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the return is a pointer to
.I sip_str_t
with the
.IR sip_str_ptr
member pointing to "\fBs\fR" of \fBsip:marconi@radio.org\fR and
\fIsip_str_len\fR being set to
.BR 21 ,
the length of
.BR sip:marconi@radio.org .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_parse_uri()
function takes a
.B URI
string in the form
\fIsip_str_t\fR and returns a parsed \fBURI\fR
.IR sip_uri .
The syntax of
the
.B URI
is as specified in RFC 3261, section 25.1. If the parser
encounters an error when parsing a component, it sets the appropriate error
bit in the error flags and proceeds to the next component, if present.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_free_parsed_uri()\fR function takes a parsed \fBURI\fR
.IR sip_uri ,
obtained from
.BR sip_parse_uri() ,
and frees any associated
memory.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_parse_uri()
function returns the parsed
.BR URI
\fIsip_uri\fR on success. It returns a \fBNULL\fR if memory cannot be
allocated for the parsed
.BR URI .
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B SIP
header value of the
.B SIP
message is
.B NULL
or there
is no
.BR URI .
.sp
The input
.B URI
is null or the requested
.B URI
component is
invalid. The error flag is set for the requested component.
.sp
The \fBURI\fR parameters or headers are requested from a non-\fBSIP[S]\fR
.BR URI ;
or the '\fBopaque\fR', '\fBquery\fR', '\fBpath\fR',
\&'\fBreg-name\fR' components are requested from a
.BR "SIP[S] URI" .
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
