'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_request_method 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_request_method, sip_get_response_code, sip_get_response_phrase,
sip_get_sip_version \- obtain attributes from the start line in a SIP
message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBsip_method_t\fR \fIsip_get_request_method\fR(\fBconst sip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_get_response_code\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst sip_str_t *\fIsip_get_response_phrase\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst sip_str_t*\fIsip_get_sip_version\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type
.BR sip_str_t ,
.B sip_str_t
is supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
     char	*sip_str_ptr;
     int	sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I sip_str_ptr
parameter points to the start of the returned value
and
.I sip_str_len
supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
For example, given the following request line in a
.B SIP
message
.I sip_msg
that is input to
.BR sip_get_request_uri_str() :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
FROM : <Alice sip:alice@atlanta.com>;tag=1928301774
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the return is a pointer to
.I sip_str_t
with the
.IR sip_str_ptr
member pointing to "\fBA\fR" of
.B
Alice
and
.I
sip_str_len
being set
to
.BR 5 ,
the length of
.BR Alice .
.sp
.LP
Access functions for headers that can have multiple values take the value
.RB "as the input, while those that can have only one value take the" " SIP"
message
.I sip_msg
as the input.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_request_method()
function will return the
.BR SIP
method from the request line in the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
The
method can be one of the following:
.br
.in +2
INVITE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
ACK
.in -2
.br
.in +2
OPTIONS
.in -2
.br
.in +2
BYE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
CANCEL
.in -2
.br
.in +2
REGISTER
.in -2
.br
.in +2
REFER
.in -2
.br
.in +2
INFO
.in -2
.br
.in +2
SUBSCRIBE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
NOTIFY
.in -2
.br
.in +2
PRACK
.in -2
.br
.in +2
UNKNOWN
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_response_code()
function will return the response code
.I response
from the request line in the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_respose_phrase()
function will return the response phrase
.I response
from the request line in the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_sip_version()
function will return the version of the
.B SIP
protocol from the request or the response line in the
.BR SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer to
.IR sip_str_t ,
the return value is
the specified value on success or
.B NULL
in case of error. For functions
that return an integer, the return value is the specified value on success
and
.B -1
on error.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions take a pointer to an integer
.I error
as an argument. If
the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The input
.B SIP
message
.I sip_msg
or the header value is null; or
the specified header/header value is deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The header value is not present or invalid. The parser could not parse it
correctly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is an error allocating memory for the return value.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
