'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_msg_is_request 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_msg_is_request, sip_message_is_response \- determine if the SIP message
is a request or a response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBboolean_t\fR \fIsip_msg_is_request\fR(\fBconst sip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fIsip_msg_is_response\fR(\fBconst sip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_msg_is_request()
function returns
.B B_TRUE
if
.I sip_msg
is a request and
.B B_FALSE
otherwise.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_msg_is_response()
function returns
.B B_TRUE
if
.I sip_msg
is a response and
.B B_FALSE
otherwise.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
For functions that return an integer, the return value is the specified
value on success and
.B -1
on error.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions take a pointer to an integer
.I error
as an argument. If
the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The input
.B SIP
message
.I sip_msg
or the header value is null; or
the specified header/header value is deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The header value is not present or invalid. The parser could not parse it
correctly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is an error allocating memory for the return value.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
