'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_add_branchid_to_via 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_add_branchid_to_via \- add a branch parameter to the topmost VIA header
in the SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_add_branchid_to_via\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBchar *\fIbranchid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_branchid_to_via()
function adds a branch
.I param
to
the topmost
.B VIA
header in the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
Note
that a new header is created as a result of adding the branch parameter and
the old header is marked deleted. Applications with multiple threads working
on the same
.B VIA
header need to take note of this.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return
.B 0
on success and the appropriate error value
on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, functions that return an error value may return one of the
following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Mandatory parameters are not provided or are NULL.
.sp
For
.BR sip_add_branchid_to_via() ,
the topmost
.B VIA
header already
has a branch
.I param
or the
.B SIP
message does not have a
.BR VIA
header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The message cannot be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is an error allocating memory for creating headers/parameters.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
