'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_header 3SIP "09 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_header \- get a SIP header from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_header *\fIsip_get_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIheader_name\fR, \fBsip_header_t\fR \fIold_header\fR, \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_header()
function returns the header specified by
\fIheader_name\fR (long or compact form) from the \fBSIP\fR message
.IR sip_msg .
If
.I header_name
is
.BR NULL ,
the first header in the
\fBSIP\fR message is returned. The
.BR old_header ,
if non-null, specifies
the starting position in
.I sip_msg
from which the search is started.
Otherwise, the search begins at the start of the
.B SIP
message. For
example, to get the first
.B VIA
header from the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
via_hdr = sip_get_header(sip_msg, "VIA", NULL, &error);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
To get the next
.B VIA
header from
.IR sip_msg :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
via_hdr = sip_get_header(sip_msg, "VIA", via_hdr, &error);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_header()
function ignores any header that is marked as
deleted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success, the
.B sip_get_header()
function returns the queried header.
On failure, it returns
.BR NULL .
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The following value may be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I header_name
specified in the
.B SIP
message is not present or
has been deleted; or, the
.I header_name
is not specified and there are
no "un-deleted" headers in the \fBSIP\fR message.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
