'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_hold_dialog 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_hold_dialog, sip_release_dialog \- hold/release reference on a dialog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_hold_dialog\fR(\fBsip_dialog_t\fR \fIdialog\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_release_dialog\fR(\fBsip_dialog_t\fR \fIdialog\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type
.BR sip_str_t ,
.B sip_str_t
is supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
     char	*sip_str_ptr;
     int	sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I sip_str_ptr
parameter points to the start of the returned value
and
.I sip_str_len
supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_hold_dialog()
function is used to hold a reference on the
.IR dialog .
A dialog is not freed if there are any references on it.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_release_dialog()
function is used to release a reference in
the
.IR dialog .
If the reference in a dialog drops to
.B 0
and it is in
.B SIP_DLG_DESTROYED
state, it is freed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
