'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_add_request_line 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_add_request_line, sip_add_response_line \- add a request/response line
to a SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsip_add_request_line\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_request\fR,
     \fBsip_method_t\fR \fImethod\fR, \fBchar *\fIrequest_uri\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_add_response_line\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_response\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIresponse_code\fR, \fBchar *\fIresponse_phase\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_request_line()
function adds a request line to the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_request .
The request line is created using the
.B SIP
method specified in
.I method
and the
.B URI
in
.IR request_uri .
The
.B SIP
method can be one of the following:
.br
.in +2
.B INVITE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B ACK
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B OPTIONS
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B BYE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B CANCEL
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B REGISTER
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B REFER
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B SUBSCRIBE
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B NOTIFY
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B PRACK
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B INFO
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The resulting request line has the \fBSIP\fR-Version of "2.0".
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_response_line()
function adds a response line to the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_response .
The response line is created using the
response code
.I response_code
and the phrase in
.IR response_phrase .
If the
.I response_code
is one that is listed in RFC 3261,
.B sip_get_resp_desc()
can be used to get the response phase for the
.IR response_code .
The resulting response line has the
.BR SIP -Version
of "2.0".
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_response_line()
and
.BR sip_add_request_line()
functions return
.B 0
on success and the appropriate error value in case
of failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, the
.B sip_add_response_line()
and
.B sip_add_request_line()
functions could return one of the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If mandatory input is not provided or if the input is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If the input
.B SIP
message cannot be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If memory allocation fails when creating the request/response line or when
creating headers in the
.B ACK
request.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
