'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_request_uri_str 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_request_uri_str \- return request URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst sip_str_t *\fIsip_get_request_uri_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type
.IR sip_str_t ,
.I sip_str_t
is supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
     char *sip_str_ptr;
     int  sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I sip_str_ptr
parameter points to the start of the returned value
and
.I sip_str_len
supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
For example, given the following request line in a
.B SIP
message input
to
.BR sip_get_request_uri_str() :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
INVITE sip:marconi@radio.org SIP/2.0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the return is a pointer to
.I sip_str_t
with the
.IR sip_str_ptr
member pointing to "\fBs\fR" of
.B
sip:marconi@radio.org
and
.I sip_str_len
being set to
.BR 21 ,
the length of
.BR sip:marconi@radio.org .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_request_uri_str()
function returns the
.B URI
string
from the request line in the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_request_uri_str()
function returns the
.B URI
string.
The function returns
.B NULL
on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
For the
.B sip_get_request_uri_str()
function, there is no request line
is in the
.B SIP
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
For
.IR sip_get_request_uri_str ,
the request
.B URI
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
