'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_trans 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_trans \- lookup a transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_xaction *\fIsip_get_trans\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwhich\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_trans()
transaction for the SIP message
.IR sip_msg .
A
transaction is not freed if there are any references on it.
.sp
.LP
The transaction type should be specified as one of the following:
.br
.in +2
.B SIP_CLIENT_TRANSACTON
- lookup a client transaction
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B SIP_SERVER_TRANSACTON
- lookup a server transaction
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_trans()
function matches a transaction to a message as
specified in RFC 3261, sections 17.1.3 and 17.2.3. The
.B sip_get_trans()
function holds a reference to the returned transaction. The caller must
release this reference after use.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_trans()
function returns the required value on success or
.I NULL
on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
