'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_copy_start_line 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_copy_start_line, sip_copy_header, sip_copy_header_by_name,
sip_copy_all_headers \- copy headers from a SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_copy_start_line\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIfrom_msg\fR, \fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIto_msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_copy_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIparam\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_copy_header_by_name\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIfrom_msg\fR, \fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIto_msg\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIheader_name\fR, \fBchar *\fIparam\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_copy_all_headers\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIfrom_msg\fR, \fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIto_msg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_copy_start_line()
function copies the start line, a request
or a response line, from
.I from_msg
to
.IR to_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_copy_header()
function copies the
.B SIP
header specified
by
.I sip_header
to the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
A new
.BR SIP
header is created from
.I sip_header
and
.IR param ,
and is appended to
.IR sip_msg .
The
.I param
can be non-null.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_copy_header_by_name()
function copies the header specified by
.I header_name
(long or short form) from
.I from_msg
to
.IR to_msg .
The new header is created using the header value from
.I from_msg
and
.IR param ,
if non-null, and appended to
.IR to_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_copy_all_headers()
copies all the headers from \fIfrom_msg\fR
to
.IR to_msg .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return
.B 0
on success and the appropriate error on
failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions can return one of the following errors in case of
failure:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the required input parameters are
.B NULL
or if the header being
copied does not exist or is deleted in source
.B SIP
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Error while allocating memory for creating the new header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the input SIP message cannot be modified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
