'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_add_header 3SIP "09 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_add_header \- add a SIP header to the SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_add_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBchar *\fIheader_string\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_header()
function takes the
.B SIP
header
.IR header_string ,
adds a
.B CRLF
(carriage return/line feed) and
appends it to the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
The
.B sip_add_header()
function is typically used when adding a
.BR SIP
header with multiple values.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_add_header()
function returns
.B 0
on success and the
appropriate error value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, the
.B sip_add_header()
function can return one of the
following error values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Mandatory parameters are not provided, i.e. null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The message cannot be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Error allocating memory for creating headers/parameters.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
