'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_param_value 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_param_value, sip_get_params, sip_is_param_present \- get parameter
information for a SIP header value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst sip_str_t *\fIsip_get_param_value\fR
     (\fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIheader_value\fR, \fBchar *\fIparam_name\fR, \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst sip_param_t *\fIsip_get_params\fR
     (\fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIheader_value\fR, \fBint *\fIerror\fR);;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fIsip_is_param_present\fR
     (\fBconst sip_param_t *\fIparam_list\fR, \fBchar *\fIparam_name\fR, \fBint\fR \fIparam_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_param_value()
function returns the value for the parameter
name specified by
.I param_name
from the
.B SIP
header value
.IR header_value .
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type
.BR sip_str_t ,
.B sip_str_t
is supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
	char	*sip_str_ptr;
	int	sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I sip_str_ptr
parameter points to the start of the returned value
and
.I sip_str_len
supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_params()
function returns the parameter list, if any, for
the
.B SIP
header value
.IR header_value .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_is_param_present()
function returns
.B B_TRUE
if the
parameter specified by
.I param_name
of length supplied in
.IR param_len
is present in the parameter list,
.IR param_list .
Otherwise, it returns
.BR B_FALSE .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
With the exception of
.BR sip_is_param_present() ,
these functions return
the queried value on success and
.B NULL
on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If any of the required input is
.B NULL
or if the specified
.BR SIP
header value is marked deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the returned
.B SIP
header value is invalid (i.e. the parser
encountered errors when parsing the value).
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
