'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_init_conn_object 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_init_conn_object, sip_clear_stale_data, sip_conn_destroyed \-
connection object related functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_init_conn_object\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_clear_stale_data\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_conn_destroyed\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_init_conn_object()
function initializes the connection object
.I obj
for use by the stack. The first member of the connection object (a
void *) is used by the stack to store connection object specific
stack-private data.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_clear_stale_data()
function is used to clear any
stack-private data in the connection object
.IR obj .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_conn_destroyed()
function is used to intimate the stack of
the pending destruction of the connection object
.IR obj .
The stack clean
up any stack-private data in
.I obj
and also removes
.I obj
from any
caches the stack maintains.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_init_conn_object()
function returns
.B 0
on success and
the appropriate error value on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
