'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_register_sent_by 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_register_sent_by, sip_unregister_sent_by, sip_unregister_all_sent_by \-
allows registering and un-registering sent-by values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_register_sent_by\fR(\fBchar *\fIval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_unregister_sent_by\fR(\fBchar *\fIval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_unregister_all_sent_by\fR(\fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_register_sent_by()
function can be used to register a list of
hostnames or IP addresses that the application may add to the
.BR VIA
headers. The
.I val
is a comma separated list of such sent-by values. If
any value is registered using
.BR sip_register_sent_by() ,
the
.BR SIP
stack validates incoming responses to check if the sent-by parameter in the
topmost
.B VIA
header is part of the registered list. If the check fails,
the response is dropped. If there are no sent-by values registered, there is
no check done on incoming responses.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_unregister_sent_by()
and
.BR sip_unregister_all_sent_by()
functions are used to un-register sent-by values. The
.I val
for
.B sip_unregister_sent_by()
is a comma separated list of sent-by values
.RB "that need to be un-registered." " sip_unregister_all_sent_by()"
un-registers all the values that have been registered.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_register_sent_by()
function returns
.B 0
on success and
the appropriate error value on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
