'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_create_response 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_create_response \- create a response for a SIP request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_create_response\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_request\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIresponse_code\fR, \fBchar *\fIresponse_phase\fR,
     \fBchar *\fItotag\fR, \fBchar *\fIcontact_uri\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_create_response()
function creates and returns a
.BR SIP
message in response to the
.B SIP
request
.IR sip_request .
The response
line in the resulting
.B SIP
message is created using the response code
in
.I response_code
and the phrase in
.IR response_phrase .
The response
line has the
.BR SIP -Version
of "2.0". If a non-null
.I
totag
is
specified, the resulting
.B SIP
response has a
.B TO
header with a tag
value from
.IR totag .
If
.I totag
is null and the
.IR response_code
is anything other than
.BR 100
.RB ( TRYING ),
.B sip_create_response()
adds a
.B TO
header with a randomly generated tag value. If the
.I response_code
is
.B 100
and
.I totag
is null, the
.B SIP
response has a
.B TO
header without a tag parameter. If
.I contact_uri
is non-null, a
.B CONTACT
header is added to the
.B SIP
response with
the
.B URI
specified in
.IR contact_uri .
The
.B SIP
response has the
following headers copied from
.IR sip_request :
.br
.in +2
All
.B VIA
headers
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B FROM
header
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B TO
header (with tag added, if required, as stated above)
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B CALL-ID
header
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B CSEQ
header
.in -2
.br
.in +2
All
.B RECORD-ROUTE
headers
.in -2
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_create_response()
function returns the resulting
.BR SIP
message on success and
.B NULL
on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
