'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_hold_msg 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_hold_msg, sip_free_msg \- adds and removes a reference from a SIP
message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_hold_msg\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_free_msg\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_hold_msg()
function adds a reference to the SIP message
passed as the argument. The reference is used to prevent the \fBSIP\fR
message from being freed when in use.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_free_msg()\fR function is used to remove an added reference on
the
.B SIP
message passed as the argument. If this is the last reference
on the
.B SIP
message (i.e. the number of references on the \fBSIP\fR
message is
.BR 0 ),
the
.B SIP
message is destroyed and associated
resources freed. Freeing a
.B SIP
message does not set the
.IR sip_msg
pointer to
.IR NULL .
Applications should not expect the pointer to a freed
\fBSIP\fR message to be
.IR NULL .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
