'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_get_header_value 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_header_value, sip_get_next_value \- get a SIP header value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_value *\fIsip_get_header_value\fR
     (\fBconst struct sip_header *\fIsip_header\fR, \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst struct sip_value *\fIsip_get_next_value\fR
     (\fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIold_value\fR, \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_header_value()
function returns the first valid value
from
.B SIP
header
.IR sip_header .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_get_next_value()
function returns the next valid value
following the
.B SIP
value
.IR old_value .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return the queried value on success and
.I NULL
on
failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If any of the required input is
.I NULL
or if the specified
.BR SIP
header value is marked deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the returned
.B SIP
header value is invalid (i.e. the parser
encountered errors when parsing the value).
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
