'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_msg_to_str 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_msg_to_str, sip_hdr_to_str, sip_reqline_to_str, sip_respline_to_str,
sip_sent_by_to_str \- return string representations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBchar *\fIsip_msg_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fIsip_hdr_to_str\fR(\fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fIsip_reqline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fIsip_respline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fIsip_sent_by_to_str\fR(\fBint *\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_msg_to_str()
function returns the string representation of
the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
Deleted headers are not included in the
returned string. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned
string.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_hdr_to_str()
function returns the string representation of
the
.B SIP
header
.IR sip_header .
The caller is responsible for freeing
the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_reqline_to_str()
function returns the string representation
of the request line from the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
The caller is
responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_respline_to_str()
function returns the string representation
of the response line from the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
The caller is
responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_sent_by_to_str()
function can be used to retrieve the list of
sent-by values registered with the stack. The returned string is a comma
separated list of sent-by values. The caller is responsible for freeing the
returned string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.BR sip_msg_to_str() ,
.BR sip_hdr_to_str() ,
.BR sip_reqline_to_str() ,
.BR sip_respline_to_str() ,
and
.B sip_sent_by_to_str()
functions return the relevant string on success
and
.B NULL
on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
For the
.BR sip_msg_to_str() ,
.BR sip_hdr_to_str() ,
.BR sip_reqline_to_str() ,
and
.BR sip_respline_to_str() ,
one of the
following values is set if the error is non-null:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Input is null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Memory allocation failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by
.I error
is set to
.BR 0 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
