'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_sendmsg 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_sendmsg \- send an outbound SIP message to the SIP stack for processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_sendmsg\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR, \fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBsip_dialog_t\fR \fIdialog\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_sendmsg()
function is used to send an outbound
.BR SIP
message
.I sip_msg
to the
.B SIP
stack on its way to the peer. The
connection object for the
.B SIP
message is passed as
.IR obj .
The caller
also provides the dialog associated with the message, if one exists. The value
of flags is the result of ORing the following, as required:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIP_SEND_STATEFUL
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Send the request or response statefully. This results in the stack creating
and maintaining a transaction for this request/response. If this flag is not
set transactions are not created for the request/response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIP_DIALOG_ON_FORK
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
When this flag is set, the stack may create multiple dialogs for a dialog
completing response. This may result due to forking of the dialog creating
request. If this flag is not set, the first response to a dialog creating
request creates a dialog, but subsequent ones do not. It is only meaningful if
the stack is configured to maintain dialogs.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_sendmsg()
function returns
.B 0
on success and the
appropriate error on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_sendmsg()
function can return one of the following errors on
failure:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If a message is being statefully sent and the
.I branchid
in the
.BR VIA
header does not conform to RFC 3261 or when accessing
.B CSEQ
header while
creating a transaction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If a message is being statefully sent, error getting the
.B CSEQ
header
while creating a transaction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If a message is being statefully sent, error getting the
.B CSEQ
value
while creating a transaction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the message is being statefully sent, error allocating memory for creating
or adding a transaction or during transaction related processing.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
