'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sip_delete_start_line 3SIP "20 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_delete_start_line, sip_delete_header, sip_delete_header_by_name,
sip_delete_value \- delete a SIP header or a header value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_start_line\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_header_by_name\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fImsg\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIheader_name\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_value\fR(\fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR,
     \fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIsip_header_value\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_delete_start_line()
function deletes the start line, a
request or a response line, from the SIP message
.IR sip_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_delete_header()
function deletes the
.B SIP
header
specified by
.I sip_header
from the associated
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_delete_header_by_name()
function deletes the
.B SIP
header
name specified by
.I header_name
(long or compact form) from the
.B SIP
message
.IR sip_msg .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sip_delete_value()
deletes the
.B SIP
header value specified
by
.I sip_header_value
from the
.B SIP
header
.IR sip_header .
.sp
.LP
When a
.B SIP
header or value is deleted, the corresponding header or
value is marked as deleted.  Lookups ignore headers or values that are
marked as deleted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return
.B 0
on success and the appropriate error on
failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of
.B errno
is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, the returned error could be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If any of the required input is
.BR NULL .
.sp
If the header or value to be deleted does not exist.
.sp
If the header or value to be deleted has already been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the
.B SIP
message cannot be modified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libsip (3LIB)
