'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acctmerg 1M "22 Feb 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
acctmerg \- merge or add total accounting files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/acct/acctmerg\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fIfilename\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B acctmerg
reads its standard input and up to nine additional files,
all in the
.B tacct
format (see
.BR acct.h (3HEAD))
or an \fBASCII\fR
version thereof. It merges these inputs by adding records whose keys
(normally user
.B ID
and name) are identical, and expects the inputs to
be sorted on those keys.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produce output in
.B ASCII
version of
.BR tacct .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produce input in
.B ASCII
version of
.BR tacct .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print input with no processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produce a single record that totals all input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Summarize by user
.B ID,
rather than by user
.B ID
and name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produce output in verbose
.B ASCII
format, with more precise notation
for floating-point numbers.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B acctmerg
command.
.sp
.LP
The following sequence is useful for making "repairs" to any file kept in
this format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% acctmerg \|\|\fB-v\fR \|<\fIfilename1\fB\|>\fIfilename2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Edit
.I filename2
as you want:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% acctmerg \|\|\fB-i\fB \|\fI<filename2\fB\|>\fIfilename1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWaccu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acctcom (1),
.BR acct (1M),
.BR acctcms (1M),
.BR acctcon (1M),
.BR acctprc (1M),
.BR acctsh (1M),
.BR fwtmp (1M),
.BR runacct (1M),
.BR acct (2),
.BR acct.h (3HEAD),
.BR utmpx (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
