'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH autopush 1M "15 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
autopush \- configures lists of automatically pushed STREAMS modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBautopush\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBautopush\fR \fB-g\fR \fB-M\fR \fImajor\fR \fB-m\fR \fIminor\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBautopush\fR \fB-r\fR \fB-M\fR \fImajor\fR \fB-m\fR \fIminor\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B autopush
command configures the list of modules to be
automatically pushed onto the stream when a device is opened. It can also be
used to remove a previous setting or get information on a setting.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets up the
.B autopush
configuration for each driver according to the
information stored in
.IR filename .
An
.B autopush
file consists of
lines of four or more fields, separated by spaces as shown below:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fImajor minor last-minor module1 module2 \|.\|.\|. module8\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The first field is a string that specifies the
.I major
device name, as
listed in the
.B /kernel/drv
directory. The next two fields are integers
that specify the
.I minor
device number and
.I last-minor
device
number. The fields following represent the names of modules. If \fIminor\fR
is \fB\(mi1\fR, then all minor devices of a major driver specified by
\fImajor\fR are configured, and the value for \fIlast-minor\fR is ignored.
If
.I last-minor
is
.BR 0 ,
then only a single minor device is
configured. To configure a range of minor devices for a particular major,
\fIminor\fR must be less than \fIlast-minor\fR.
.sp
The remaining fields list the names of modules to be automatically pushed
onto the stream when opened, along with the position of an optional anchor.
The maximum number of modules that can be pushed is eight. The modules are
pushed in the order they are specified. The optional special character
sequence
.B [anchor]
indicates that a STREAMS anchor should be placed on
the stream at the module previously specified in the list; it is an error to
specify more than one anchor or to have an anchor first in the list.
.sp
A nonzero exit status indicates that one or more of the lines in the
specified file failed to complete successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gets the current configuration setting of a particular
.I major
and
\fIminor\fR device number specified with the \fB-M\fR and \fB-m\fR options
respectively and displays the autopush modules associated with it. It will
also return the starting minor device number if the request corresponds to a
setting of a range (as described with the \fB-f\fR option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-m\fR \fIminor\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the minor device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-M\fR \fImajor\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the major device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes the previous configuration setting of the particular
.IR major
and
.I minor
device number specified with the
.B -M
and
.BR -m
options respectively. If the values of
.I major
and
.IR minor
correspond to a previously established setting of a range of minor devices,
where
.I minor
matches the first minor device number in the range, the
configuration would be removed for the entire range.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using the \fBautopush\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following example gets the current configuration settings for the
\fImajor\fR and \fIminor\fR device numbers as indicated and displays the
\fBautopush\fR modules associated with them for the character-special device
.B /dev/term/a:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# autopush \fB-g\fR \fB-M\fR 29 \fB-m\fR 0
Major     Minor     Lastminor     Modules
  29        0         1           ldterm  ttcompat
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/iu.ap
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR ttymon (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ldterm (7M),
.BR sad (7D),
.BR " streamio" (7I),
.BR ttcompat (7M)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The use of the
.B autopush
command is obsolete for networking
data-links. The preferred method of configuring a list of automatically
pushed STREAMS modules on a given networking data-link interface is the
.BR dladm (1M)
\fBautopush\fR link property.
.sp
.LP
Because network devices are self-cloning, the
.B autopush
command is
inadequate for networking devices. The granularity of the \fBautopush\fR
command's configuration is driver-wide, and not per-interface as one might
expect. Another reason not to use
.B autopush
is that administrators are
more familiar with the names of their network interfaces than with device
major and minor numbers. The
.BR dladm (1M)
command allows the
configuration using data-link interface names.
