'\" te
.\" Copyright 2012 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.TH BEADM 1M "Feb 26, 2011"
.SH NAME
beadm \- utility for managing zfs boot environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR create [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdescription\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fInon-activeBeName\fR | \fIbeName@snapshot\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIproperty=value\fR] .\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIzpool\FI] \fIbeName\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBcreate\fR \fIbeName@snapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBdestroy\fR [\fB-fFs\fR] \fIbeName\fR | \fIbeName@snapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBlist\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-ds\fR] [\fB-H\fR] [\fIbeName\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBmount\fR \fIbeName\fR \fImountpoint\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBunmount\fR [\fB-f\fR] \fIbeName\fR | \fImountpoint\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBrename\fR \fIbeName\fR \fInewBeName\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBactivate\fR \fIbeName\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBrollback\fR \fIbeName\fR \fIsnapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbeadm\fR \fBrollback\fR \fIbeName@snapshot\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B beadm
command is the user interface for managing zfs Boot
Environments (BEs). This utility is intended to be used by System
Administrators who want to manage multiple Solaris Instances on a single
system.
.sp
The
.B beadm
command supports the following operations:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Create a new BE, based on the active BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Create a new BE, based on an inactive BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Create a snapshot of an existing BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Create a new BE, based on an existing snapshot.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Create a new BE, and copy it to a different zpool.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Activate an existing, inactive BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Mount a BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Unmount a BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Destroy a BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Destroy a snapshot of a BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Rename an existing, inactive BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Roll back a BE to an existing snapshot of a BE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el -
Display information about your snapshots and datasets.
.RE

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
The
.B beadm
command has the subcommands and options listed
below. Also see
EXAMPLES below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays command usage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm create
[\fB-a\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdescription\fR]
[\fB-e\fR
.I non-activeBeName
| \fIbeName@snapshot\fR]
         [\fB-o\fR
.IR property=value ]
\&.\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIzpool\fR] \fIbeName\fR

.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a new boot environment named
.IR beName .
If the
.B -e
option is
not
provided, the new boot environment will be created as a clone of the
currently
running boot environment. If the
.B -d
option is provided then the
description is
also used as the title for the BE's entry in the GRUB menu for
x86 systems or
in the boot menu for SPARC systems. If the
.B -d
option is
.RI "not provided," " beName"
will be used as the title.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Activate the newly created BE upon creation.  The default is to not activate
the newly created BE.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -d
.I description
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a new BE with a description associated with it.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -e
.I non-activeBeName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a new BE from an existing inactive BE.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -e
.I beName@snapshot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a new BE from an existing snapshot of the BE named beName.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -o
.I property=value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create the datasets for new BE with specific ZFS properties.  Multiple
.B -o
options can be specified.  See
.BR zfs (1M)
for more information on
the
.B -o
option.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -p
.I zpool
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create the new BE in the specified zpool.  If this is not provided, the
default
behavior is to create the new BE in the same pool as as the origin BE.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm create
.I beName@snapshot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a snapshot of the existing BE named beName.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm destroy
[\fB-fFs\fR]
.I beName
| \fIbeName@snapshot\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Destroys the boot environment named
.I beName
or destroys an existing
snapshot of
the boot environment named
.IR beName@snapshot .
Destroying a
boot environment
will also destroy all snapshots of that boot environment.  Use
this command
with caution.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forcefully unmount the boot environment if it is currently mounted.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the action without prompting to verify the destruction of the boot
environment.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Destroy all snapshots of the boot
environment.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm list
[\fB-a\fR | \fB-ds\fR] [\fB-H\fR] [\fIbeName\fR]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information about the existing boot environment named
.IR beName ,
or
lists
information for all boot environments if
.I beName
is not provided.
The 'Active'
field indicates whether the boot environment is active now,
represented
by 'N'; active on reboot, represented by 'R'; or both, represented
by 'NR'.
.sp
Each line in the machine parasable output has the boot environment name as the
first field.  The 'Space' field is displayed in bytes and the 'Created' field
is displayed in UTC format.  The
.B -H
option used with no other options
gives
the boot environment's uuid in the second field.  This field will be
blank if
the boot environment does not have a uuid.  See the EXAMPLES section.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all available information about the boot environment.  This includes
subordinate file systems and snapshots.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information about all subordinate file systems belonging to the boot
environment.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information about the snapshots of the boot environment.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -H
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not list header information.  Each field in the list information is
separated by a semicolon.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm mount
.I beName mountpoint
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mounts a boot environment named beName at mountpoint.  mountpoint must be an
already existing empty directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm unmount
[\fB-f\fR]
.I beName
| \fImountpoint\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unmounts the boot environment named beName. The command can also be given a
path to a
beName mount point on the system.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forcefully unmount the boot environment even if its currently busy.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm rename
.I beName newBeName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Renames the boot environment named
.I beName
to
.IR newBeName .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B "beadm rollback"
.I "beName snapshot"
.RI | " beName@snapshot"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Roll back the boot environment named
.I beName
to existing snapshot
of the boot environment named
.IR beName@snapshot .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B beadm activate
.I beName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Makes beName the active BE on next reboot.
.RE

.SH ALTERNATE BE LOCATION
.LP
The alternate BE location outside rpool/ROOT can be configured
by modifying the BENAME_STARTS_WITH parameter in /etc/default/be.
For example: BENAME_STARTS_WITH=rootfs

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.BR "Example 1" :
Create a new BE named BE1, by cloning the current live BE.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create BE1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 2" :
Create a new BE named BE2, by cloning the existing inactive
BE
named BE1.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create -e BE1 BE2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 3" :
Create a snapshot named now of the existing BE named BE1.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create BE1@now\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 4" :
Create a new BE named BE3, by cloning an existing snapshot of
BE1.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create -e BE1@now BE3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 5" :
Create a new BE named BE4 based on the currently running BE.
Create the new BE in rpool2.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create -p rpool2 BE4\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 6" :
Create a new BE named BE5 based on the currently running BE.
Create the new BE in rpool2, and create its datasets with compression turned
on.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create -p rpool2 -o compression=on BE5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 7" :
Create a new BE named BE6 based on the currently running BE
and provide a description for it.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm create -d "BE6 used as test environment" BE6\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 8" :
Activate an existing, inactive BE named BE3.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm activate BE3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 9" :
Mount the BE named BE3 at /mnt.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm mount BE3 /mnt\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 10" :
Unmount the mounted BE named BE3.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm unmount BE3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 11" :
Destroy the BE named BE3 without verification.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm destroy -f BE3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 12" :
Destroy the snapshot named now of BE1.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm destroy BE1@now\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 13" :
Rename the existing, inactive BE named BE1 to BE3.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm rename BE1 BE3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 14" :
Roll back the BE named BE1 to snapshot BE1@now.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm rollback BE1 BE1@now\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 15" :
List all existing boot environments.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm list\fR
BE  Active Mountpoint Space  Policy Created
--  ------ ---------- -----  ------ -------
BE2 -      -          72.0K  static 2008-05-21 12:26
BE3 -      -          332.0K static 2008-08-26 10:28
BE4 -      -          15.78M static 2008-09-05 18:20
BE5 NR     /          7.25G  static 2008-09-09 16:53
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 16" :
List all existing boot environmets and list all dataset and
snapshot information about those bootenvironments.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm list -d -s\fR

BE/Dataset/Snapshot     Active Mountpoint Space   Policy Created
-------------------     ------ ---------- -----   ------ -------
BE2
   p/ROOT/BE2           -      -          36.0K   static 2008-05-21 12:26
   p/ROOT/BE2/opt       -      -          18.0K   static 2008-05-21 16:26
   p/ROOT/BE2/opt@now   -      -          0       static 2008-09-08 22:43
   p/ROOT/BE2@now       -      -          0       static 2008-09-08 22:43
BE3
   p/ROOT/BE3           -      -          192.0K  static 2008-08-26 10:28
   p/ROOT/BE3/opt       -      -          86.0K   static 2008-08-26 10:28
   p/ROOT/BE3/opt/local -      -          36.0K   static 2008-08-28 10:58
BE4
   p/ROOT/BE4           -      -          15.78M  static 2008-09-05 18:20
BE5
   p/ROOT/BE5           NR     /          6.10G   static 2008-09-09 16:53
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt       -      /opt       24.55M  static 2008-09-09 16:53
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt@bar   -      -          18.38M  static 2008-09-10 00:59
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt@foo   -      -          18.38M  static 2008-06-10 16:37
   p/ROOT/BE5@bar       -      -          139.44M static 2008-09-10 00:59
   p/ROOT/BE5@foo       -      -          912.85M static 2008-06-10 16:37
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.BR "Example 17" :
List all dataset and snapshot information about BE5

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm list -a BE5\fR

BE/Dataset/Snapshot   Active Mountpoint Space   Policy Created
-------------------   ------ ---------- -----   ------ -------
BE5
   p/ROOT/BE5         NR     /          6.10G   static 2008-09-09 16:53
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt     -      /opt       24.55M  static 2008-09-09 16:53
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt@bar -      -          18.38M  static 2008-09-10 00:59
   p/ROOT/BE5/opt@foo -      -          18.38M  static 2008-06-10 16:37
   p/ROOT/BE5@bar     -      -          139.44M static 2008-09-10 00:59
   p/ROOT/BE5@foo     -      -          912.85M static 2008-06-10 16:37
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.BR "Example 18" :
List machine parsable information about all boot
environments.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# beadm list -H\fR

BE2;;;;55296;static;1211397974
BE3;;;;339968;static;1219771706
BE4;;;;16541696;static;1220664051
BE5;215b8387-4968-627c-d2d0-f4a011414bab;NR;/;7786206208;static;1221004384
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failure
.RE


.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B /var/log/beadm/<beName>/create.log.<yyyymmdd_hhmmss>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Log used for capturing beadm create output
.sp
.nf
\fIyyyymmdd_hhmmss\fR - 20071130_140558
\fIyy\fR - year; 2007
\fImm\fR - month; 11
\fIdd\fR - day; 30
\fIhh\fR - hour; 14
\fImm\fR - minute; 05
\fIss\fR - second; 58
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.RE
.sp
.LP
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B /etc/default/be
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains default value for BENAME_STARTS_WITH parameter
.sp
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the  following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE


.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR zfs (1M)
