'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2020, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bootadm 1M "24 Jan 2020" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
bootadm \- manage bootability of GRUB-enabled operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/bootadm\fR update-archive [\fB-vn\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIaltroot\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplatform\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/bootadm\fR list-archive [\fB-vn\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIaltroot\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplatform\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
 x86 only
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/bootadm\fR set-menu [\fB-R\fR \fIaltroot\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplatform\fR]] \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/bootadm\fR list-menu [\fB-R\fR \fIaltroot\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplatform\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/bootadm\fR update-menu [\fB-Z\fR] [\fB-vn\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIaltroot\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplatform\fR]] \fB-o\fR \fIosdev\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bootadm
command manages the boot archive and, with x86 boot
environments, the GRUB (GRand Unified Bootloader) menu. The
.B update-archive
option provides a way for user to update the boot
archive as a preventative measure or as part of a recovery procedure. The
.B set-menu
subcommand allows you to switch the
.B auto-boot
timeout
and default boot entry in the GRUB menu.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list-menu
subcommand displays the location of the GRUB menu and
the current GRUB menu entries. While the typical location of the GRUB menu
is
.BR /boot/grub/menu.lst ,
depending on the install method used the
.RB "active GRUB menu might be located somewhere else. Use the" " list-menu"
subcommand to locate the active GRUB menu. For example, if a system was
installed using Live Upgrade, the GRUB menu might not be located in the
current boot environment. See the EXAMPLES section for typical output from
the
.B list-menu
option.
.sp
.LP
Note that OpenBoot PROM (OBP)-based machines, such as SPARC systems, do not
use GRUB and have no boot menu manageable by
.BR bootadm .
.sp
.LP
The
.B bootadm
command determines dynamically the options supported by
the image to be managed, so that
.B bootadm
invoked on one platform can
be used to manage diskless clients of a different platform type.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The
.B bootadm
command has the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B update-archive
.sp .6
Updates current boot archive if required. Applies to both SPARC and x86
platforms.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B list-archive
.sp .6
Lists the files and directories to be included in the boot archive. Applies
to both SPARC and x86 platforms.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B set-menu
.sp .6
Maintain GRUB menu parameters such as
.B default=
or
.BR timeout= .
The current GRUB menu is
.BR boot/grub/menu.lst ,
relative to root. Do not depend on this location, because it is subject to
change. Applies to x86 platforms only.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B list-menu
.sp .6
Lists the location of the active GRUB menu, as well as the current GRUB
menu entries. This includes the autoboot-timeout, the default entry number,
and the title of each entry. Applies to x86 platforms only.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B update-menu
.sp .6
Update the GRUB menu for a boot partition.
The raw device name for the related boot partition needs to be specified
as parameter to the
.B \-o
option.
The current GRUB menu is
.BR boot/grub/menu.lst ,
relative to root. Do not depend on this location, because it is subject to
change. Applies to x86 platforms only.

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B bootadm
command has the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B \-v
In an
.B update-archive
operation, stale files are displayed on
stderr.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B \-n
In an
.B update-archive
operation, archive content is checked but not
updated.

.sp
.ne 2
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-o " osdev
.TP
.BI \-o " osdev,rootprefix
.PD
Supply the raw device name as
.I osdev
to specify the boot partition that is going to be used for the
.B update-menu
subcommand.
.sp
If the last pathname component of the
.BI \-R " altroot
option parameter is a mountpoint in a sub-directory,
.I rootprefix
needs to be specified as the prefix path to that mountpoint.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI \-p " platform
The platform, or machine hardware class, of the client. The platform type
can only be specified together with
.BR \-R ,
and is generally useful only
for managing a diskless client where the client is of a different platform
class than the server. Platform must be one of
.BR i86pc ,
.BR sun4u ,
or
.BR sun4v .

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.na
.BI \-R " altroot
Operation is applied to an alternate root path.
.RS
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with
the
.B -R
option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system,
might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the
non-global zone's file system. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.na
.B \-Z
Handle a ZFS-root environment.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.na
.BI key= value
Possible values are:
.RS
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI default= entrynum
The item number (for example, 0, 1, or 2) in the GRUB menu designating the
operating system to boot when the timer expires.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI timeout= seconds
The number of seconds before the operating system designated by the default
item number is booted. If the value is -1, auto boot is disabled.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Updating the Current Boot Archive
.sp
.LP
The following command updates the current boot archive:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm update-archive
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Updating the Boot Archive on an Alternate Root
.sp
.LP
The following command updates the boot archive on an alternate root:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm update-archive -R /a
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 3
Listing Installed OS Instances
.sp
.LP
The following command lists the installed operating system instances in a
GRUB menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm list-menu

default=0
timeout=10
(0) Solaris10
(1) Solaris10 Failsafe
(2) Linux
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 4
Switching Default Boot Entry
.sp
.LP
The following command refers to the menu displayed in the previous example.
The user selects Linux (item 2).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm set-menu default=2
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 5
Listing GRUB Menu Entries and Location of GRUB Menu
.sp
.LP
The following command lists the GRUB menu entries and the location of the
GRUB menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm list-menu
The location for the active GRUB menu is: /stubboot/boot/grub/menu.lst
default 0
timeout 10
0 Solaris10
1 Solaris10 failsafe
2 Linux
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 6
Displaying Location of GRUB Menu
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the location of the GRUB menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm list-menu
The location for the active GRUB menu is: /dev/dsk/c0t1d0s0 (not mounted)
The filesystem type of the menu device is <ufs>
default 2
timeout 10
0 c0t1d0s3
1 c0t1d0s3 failsafe
2 Solaris10
3 Solaris10 failsafe
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In this example, the active GRUB menu is located on a device which is
.B not
mounted. To access the GRUB menu, mount the device and access the
GRUB menu at
.IR <mountpoint> /boot/grub/menu.lst\fR.

.LP
.B Example 7
Set the GRUB Menu entries for a
.B ZFS-root
installation
.sp
.LP
The following command creates the ZFS boot entries in the GRUB menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# bootadm update-menu -Z -R /a -o /dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s0
.fi
.in -2
.LP
In this example, the new
.B ZFS-root
pool on the raw device
.BR /dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s0 ,
that is mounted under
.B /a
gets the needed menu entries for the kernel and the bootsign is created.
The location of the managed
.B menu.lst
file is
.BI /a/ rpool /boot/grub/menu.lst\c
\&.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 0
The command completed successfully.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
The command exited due to an error.

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
The location of the files depend on the current active boot partition.
.TP
.B /boot/grub/menu.lst
the default location of the GRUB menu.
.TP
.BI / rpool /boot/grub/menu.lst
the location of the GRUB menu file with a ZFS-root installation.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR boot (1M),
.BR installgrub (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Consult the GRUB home page, under:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
http://www.gnu.org/
.fi
.in -2

