'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bsmconv 1M "20 Jan 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
bsmconv, bsmunconv \- enable or disable Solaris Auditing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/bsmconv\fR [\fIrootdir\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/bsmunconv\fR [\fIrootdir\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bsmconv
and
.B bsmunconv
scripts are used to enable or disable
the
.B BSM
features on a Solaris system. The optional argument
.I rootdir
is a list of one or more root directories of diskless clients
that have already been configured. See
.BR smdiskless (1M).
.sp
.LP
To enable or disable
.B BSM
on a diskless client, a server, or a
stand-alone system, logon as super-user to the system being converted and
use the
.B bsmconv
or
.B bsmunconv
commands without any options.
.sp
.LP
To enable or disable
.B BSM
on a diskless client from that client's
server, logon to the server as super-user and use
.BR bsmconv ,
specifying
the root directory of each diskless client you wish to affect. For example,
the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
myhost# bsmconv /export/root/client1 /export/root/client2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
enables
.B BSM
on the two machines named
.B client1
and
.BR client2 .
While the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
myhost# bsmconv
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
enables
.B BSM
only on the machine called
.BR myhost .
It is no longer
necessary to enable
.B BSM
on both the server and its diskless clients.
.sp
.LP
After running
.B bsmconv
the system can be configured by editing the
files in
.BR /etc/security .
Each diskless client has its own copy of
configuration files in its root directory. You might want to edit these
files before rebooting each client.
.sp
.LP
Following the completion of either script, the affected system(s) should be
rebooted to allow the auditing subsystem to come up properly initialized.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
The following files are created by
.BR bsmconv :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/device_maps
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Administrative file defining the mapping of device special files to
allocatable device names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/device_allocate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Administrative file defining parameters for device allocation.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilityObsolete Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR auditconfig (1M),
.BR auditd (1M),
.BR audit_startup (1M),
.BR audit.log (4),
.BR audit_control (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
See the section on Solaris Auditing in \fISystem Administration Guide:
Security Services\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B bsmconv
and
.B bsmunconv
are not valid in a non-global zone.
.sp
.LP
These commands are Obsolete and may be removed and replaced with equivalent
functionality in a future release of Solaris.
