'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cachefslog 1M "7 Feb 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
cachefslog \- Cache File System logging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcachefslog\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIlogfile\fR | \fB-h\fR] \fIcachefs_mount_point\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cachefslog
command displays where CacheFS statistics are being
logged. Optionally, it sets where CacheFS statistics are being logged, or it
halts logging for a cache specified by
.IR cachefs_mount_point .
The
.I cachefs_mount_point
argument is a mount point of a cache file system.
All file systems cached under the same cache as \fIcachefs_mount_point\fR
will be logged.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. You must be super-user to use the
.B -f
and
.B -h
options.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I logfile
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specify the log file to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Halt logging.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cachefs_mount_point
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
A mount point of a cache file system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B cachefslog
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (
2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Checking the Logging of a directory.
.sp
.LP
The example below checks if the directory
.B /home/sam
is being
logged:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% cachefslog /home/sam
not logged: /home/sam\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Changing the \fIlogfile\fR.
.sp
.LP
The example below changes the
.I logfile
of
.B /home/sam
to
.BR /var/tmp/samlog :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# cachefslog -f /var/tmp/samlog /home/sam
/var/tmp/samlog: /home/sam \fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Verifying the change of a \fIlogfile\fR.
.sp
.LP
The example below verifies the change of the previous example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% cachefslog /home/sam
/var/tmp/samlog: /home/sam \fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Halting the logging of a directory.
.sp
.LP
The example below halts logging for the
.B /home/sam
directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# cachefslog -h /home/sam
not logged: /home/sam\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
success
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
an error has occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cachefsstat (1M),
.BR cachefswssize (1M),
.BR cfsadmin (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Invalid path
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
It is illegal to specify a path within a cache file system.
.RE

