'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cfgadm_fp 1M "10 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
cfgadm_fp \- driver specific commands for cfgadm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-n\fR | \fB-y\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR]
     \fB-c\fR \fIfunction\fR \fIap_id\fR [\fIap_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIlisting_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR] [\fB-l\fR [\fIap_id\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR] \fB-h\fR [\fIap_id\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The " fp " port driver plug-in " /usr/lib/cfgadm/fp.so.1 " provides the"
functionality for Fibre Channel Fabric device node management through
.BR cfgadm (1M).
.B cfgadm
operates on attachment points. Attachment
points are locations in the system where hardware resources can be
dynamically reconfigured. Refer to
.BR cfgadm (1M)
for additional details
on attachment points.
.sp
.LP
For Fibre Channel Fabric device node management, each
.B fp
port node is
represented by an attachment point in the device tree. In addition, each
Fibre Channel device is represented by a dynamic attachment point.
Attachment points are named through
.BR ap_ids .
Two types of
.BR ap_ids
are defined: logical and physical. The physical
.B ap_id
is based on the
physical pathname. The logical
.B ap_id
is a shorter, more user-friendly
name. For
.B fp
port nodes, the logical
.B ap_id
is the corresponding
disk controller number. For example,
.B c0
is a typical logical
.BR ap_id .
.sp
.LP
Fibre Channel devices are named with a port World Wide Name (WWN). If a
disk device is connected to controller
.BR c0 ,
its
.B ap_id
can be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
c0::50020f2300006077
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.B 50020f2300006077
identifies the port WWN of a specific Fibre
Channel device.
.sp
.LP
Each device on the Fibre Channel private loop port, Fabric port or public
loop port is probed and made available to Solaris by default. Devices
connected to the Fibre Channel Fabric port or public loop port can be made
unavailable to Solaris by initiating an application or an end user
operation. The operation is similar to the hot unplugging of devices by way
of management user interfaces. Applications or users can use the
.B /usr/lib/cfgadm/fp.so.1
library to enable
.B libcfgadm
to provide
interfaces to accomplish this task.
.sp
.LP
The list of currently connected Fabric devices is generated in the form of
the attachment point.
.sp
.LP
A simple listing of attachment points in the system includes attachment
points at
.B fp
port nodes but not Fibre Channel devices. The following
example uses the
.B -a
flag to the list option
.RB ( -l )
to list Fibre
Channel devices:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcfgadm -l\fR
     Ap_Id                Type         Receptacle   Occupant     Condition
     c0                   fc-fabric    connected    configured   unknown
     c1                   fc-private   connected    configured   unknown
     c2                   fc-pt_to_pt  connected    configured   unknown
     c3                   fc           connected    unconfigured unknown
     sysctrl0:slot0       cpu/mem      connected    configured   ok
     sysctrl0:slot1       sbus-upa     connected    configured   ok
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example lists Fibre Channel devices connected to
.B fp
ports.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcfgadm -al\fR
     Ap_Id                Type         Receptacle   Occupant     Condition
     c0                   fc-fabric    connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006077 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f23000063a9 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300005f24 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006107 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1                   fc-private   connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b69c disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708ba7d disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b8d4 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b9b2 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c2                   fc-pt_to_pt  connected    configured   unknown
     c2::500104f000937528 tape         connected    configured   unknown
     c3                   fc           connected    unconfigured unknown
     sysctrl0:slot0       cpu/mem      connected    configured   ok
     sysctrl0:slot1       sbus-upa     connected    configured   ok
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, the
.B fc-fabric
type of
.B "ap_id c0"
indicates
.RB "that the " fp " port is connected to Fabric. For an " fp " port with a"
Fabric-related type such as
.B fc-fabric
and
.BR fc-public ,
device node
creation happens by default at the boot time and can be managed by the
.B cfgadm
configure and unconfigure operations. The
.B fc-private
type of
.B "ap_id c1"
indicates that
.B fp
port is connected to
private-loop and device node creation happens by default as well. The
.B fc-pt_to_pt
type of
.B "ap_id c2"
indicates that the
.B fp
port is
directly connected to another
.B N_port
and device node creation also
happens by default. The
.B fc
type of
.B "ap_id c3"
indicates that
nothing is attached to
.B fp
port
.BR c2 .
The Type field of a Fibre
Channel device
.B ap_id
shows the SCSI device type of LUN 0 in the
device.
.sp
.LP
A Fibre Channel device with multiple FCP SCSI LUNs is configured into
Solaris and each
.B "FCP SCSI LUN"
is available as a Solaris device.
Suppose that ap_ids
.B c0::50020f2300006077
and
.B c0::50020f23000063a9
represent Fibre Channel devices with multiple
.BR "FCP SCSI LUN" s.
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to list ap_ids with
.BR "FCP SCSI"
.B LUN
information:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcfgadm -al -o show_SCSI_LUN\fR
     Ap_Id                  Type         Receptacle   Occupant     Condition
     c0                     fc-fabric    connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006077,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006077,1 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006077,2 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300006077,3 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f23000063a9,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f23000063a9,1 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f23000063a9,2 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f23000063a9,3 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c0::50020f2300005f24,0 disk         connected    unconfigured unknown
     c0::50020f2300005f24,1 disk         connected    unconfigured unknown
     c0::50020f2300006107,0 disk         connected    unconfigured unknown
     c0::50020f2300006107,1 disk         connected    unconfigured unknown
     c1                     fc-private   connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b69c,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708ba7d,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b8d4,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c1::220000203708b9b2,0 disk         connected    configured   unknown
     c2                     fc-pt_to_pt  connected    configured   unknown
     c2::500104f000937528,0 tape         connected    configured   unknown
     c3                     fc           connected    unconfigured unknown
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, the
.B "ap_id c0::50020f2300006077,0"
identifies the
.B FCP SCSI LUN 0
of the Fibre Channel device which is represented by
port
.BR "WWN 50020f2300006077" .
The Fibre Channel device is reported to
have 4
.BR "FCP SCSI LUN" s
and they are all configured.
.B
4 FCP SCSI LUN
level ap_ids associated with port
.B "WWN 50020f2300006077"
are listed. The
listing also displays
.BR "FCP SCSI LUN" s
for unconfigured Fibre Channel
devices. The Fibre Channel device represented by
.B c0::50020f2300005f24
is reported to have two
.BR "FCP SCSI LUN" s.
The configure operation
.B
on c0::50020f2300005f24
creates two Solaris devices. The
.B
Type
field of
.B "FCP SCSI"
.B LUN
level ap_ids show the
.B SCSI
device type
of each
.BR LUN .
When a Fibre Channel device has different device type
.BR LUN s,
the
.B Type
field reflects that.
.sp
.LP
The receptacle and occupant state for attachment points at the
.B fp
port have the following meanings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B configured
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more devices configured on the
.B fp
port
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B connected
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B fp
port active
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disconnected
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B fp
port quiesced (IO activity is suspended)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B empty
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Not applicable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unconfigured
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No devices configured on the
.B fp
port
.RE

.sp
.LP
The state for individual Fibre Channel devices on an
.B fp
port:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B configured
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device is configured into Solaris and is available for use
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B connected
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B fp
port to which the device is connected to is active
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disconnected
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B fp
port to which the device is attached is quiesced
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unconfigured
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device is available to be configured
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B condition
field for attachment points at the
.B fp
port has
the following meanings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B failed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error condition has prevented the
.B fp
port from being able to
detect the presence or type of a Fibre Channel connection.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B condition
field for individual Fibre Channel devices on an
.B fp
port has the following meanings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B failed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error is encountered while probing a device on Fabric.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B failing
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device was configured on a host and its state as seen by Solaris appears
to be normal (i.e., online) but it is either not currently present or
visible in the fabric or its presence could not be verified due to an error
condition on the local port through which the device was configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unusable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device has been configured on the host, but is currently offline or
failed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The unknown
.B condition
indicates that probing a device on Fabric
completed without an error and the device state within Solaris host is
normal if the device was configured previously. The internal condition of
the device cannot be guaranteed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
.B cfgadm
defines several types of operations in addition to listing
.RB ( -l ).
These operations include invoking configuration state changes
and obtaining configuration administration help messages
.RB ( -h ).
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I function
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The following generic commands are defined for the
\fBfp\fR-transport-specific library:
.sp
For Fibre Channel device attachment points on the
.B fc-fabric
type
.B fp
port attachment point, the following configuration state change
operations are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B configure
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configure a connected Fibre Channel Fabric device to a host. When a Fibre
Channel device is listed as an unknown type in the output of the list
operation the device might not be configurable. No attempt is made to
configure devices with unknown types. The force option
.RB ( -f )
can be
used to force the
.B fp
port driver plug-in to make an attempt to
configure any devices. Any errors in the process are reported. By default,
each FCP SCSI LUN that is discovered on a Fibre channel Fabric device is
configured. However, FCP SCSI LUNs that are specified in the
"pwwn-lun-blacklist" property in the \fBfp.conf\fR file will remain
unconfigured. The FCP SCSI LUN level listing reflects the state of such FCP
SCSI LUNs. They stay in the "unconfigured" state after reboot or Solaris
Dynamic Reconfiguration on the controller that they are connected through.
Refer to \fBfp\fR(7D) for additional details on the "pwwn-lun-blacklist"
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unconfigure
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unconfigure a Fibre Channel Fabric device from a host. This device stays
unconfigured until the next reboot or Solaris Dynamic Reconfiguration on the
controller that the device is connected, at which time all fabric devices
are automatically enumerated. The default behavior may be changed through
the use of the "manual_configuration_only" property in the \fBfp.conf\fR
file. If the property is set, the device remains unconfigured after reboot.
Refer to
.BR fp (7D)
for additional details on the
"manual_configuration_only" property.
.RE

For Fibre Channel private loop devices and
.B N_Port
point-to-point
devices, the
.B configure
command returns success without doing any
operation. The
.B unconfigure
command is not supported on the private
loop devices and
.B N_Port
point-to-point devices. The private loop
devices and
.B N_Port
point-to-point devices are configured by Solaris
Fibre Channel drivers by default and are not managed through end user- or
application-initiated operations. The
.B pwwn-lun-blacklist
property in
the
.B fp.conf
file is applied to the private loop device and
.B N_Port
point-to-point device in the same way it is applied to a Fabric
device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the
.B configure
change state operation to occur irrespective of
the
.B condition
or
.BR type .
Refer to the above description of the
.B configure
change state operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I ap_id
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Obtain \fBfp\fR\(emtransport-specific help. Specify any
.B fp
attachment
point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I hardware_options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The following hardware options are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B show_SCSI_LUN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists ap_ids associated with each FCP SCSI LUN for discovered Fibre Channel
devices when specified with the
.B list
option
.BR -al .
Refer to the
previously mentioned description and example of FCP SCSI LUN level listing.
Device node creation is not supported on the FCP SCSI LUN level. See
.BR NOTES .
.RE

All Fibre Channel devices are available to Solaris by default. Enabling
only a subset of Fabric devices available to Solaris by default can be
accomplished by setting the property "manual_configuration_only" in
\fB/kernel/drv/fp.conf\fR file. When "manual_configuration_only" in
.B fp.conf
is set, all Fabric devices are not available to Solaris unless
an application or an end user had previously requested the device be
configured into Solaris. The
.B configure
state-change command makes the
device available to Solaris. After a successful
.B configure
operation on
a Fabric device, the associated links are added to the
.B /dev
namespace.
The
.B unconfigure
state-change command makes a device unavailable to
Solaris.
.sp
When a Fibre Channel Fabric device is configured successfully to a host
using the
.B "-c configure"
operation, its physical
.B ap_id
is
stored in a repository. When a Fibre Channel Fabric device is unconfigured
using the
.B "-c unconfigure"
operation, its physical
.B ap_id
is
deleted from the same repository. All fabric devices are automatically
enumerated by default and the repository is used only if the
.B fp.conf
"manual_configuration_only" property is set. Refer to \fBfp\fR(7D) for
additional details on the "manual_configuration_only" property.
.sp
You can specify the following commands with the
.B -c
option to control
the update behavior of the repository:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B force_update
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For
.BR configure ,
the attachment point is unconditionally added to the
repository; for
.BR unconfigure ,
the attachment point is unconditionally
deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_update
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No update is made to the repository regardless of the operation.
.RE

These options should not be used for normal
.B configure
and
.B unconfigure
operations. See
.BR WARNINGS .
.sp
When a Fibre Channel device has multiple
.BR "FCP SCSI LUN" s
configured and
any Solaris device associated with its
.B "FCP SCSI LUN"
is in the unusable
condition, the whole Fibre Channel device is reported as unusable. The
following option with the
.B -c
unconfigure command removes only Solaris
devices with the unusable condition for a Fibre Channel device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unusable_SCSI_LUN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For
.B unconfigure
operation, any offlined device nodes for a target
device is removed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I listing_options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to
.BR cfgadm (1M)
for usage information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I ap_id
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No test commands are available at present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I hardware_function
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No hardware specific functions are available at present.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other options have the same meaning as defined in the
.BR cfgadm (1M)
man page.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Unconfiguring a Disk
.sp
.LP
The following command unconfigures a disk:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c unconfigure c0::210000203708b606
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Unconfigure all the Configured Disks under Single
Attachment Point
.sp
.LP
The following command unconfigures all configured disks under the
attachment point
.BR c0 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c unconfigure c0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Configuring a Disk
.sp
.LP
The following command configures a disk:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c configure c0::210000203708b606
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Configure all the Unconfigured Disks under Single
Attachment Point
.sp
.LP
The following command configures all unconfigured disks under the
attachment point
.BR c0 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c configure c0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Removing the Fibre Channel Fabric Device Attachment Point
from Repository
.sp
.LP
The following command unconditionally removes the fibre channel fabric
device attachment point from the Fabric device repository.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c unconfigure -o force_update c0::210000203708b606
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Removing Offlined Solaris Device Nodes for a Target
Device
.sp
.LP
The following command removes offlined Solaris device nodes for a target
device:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# cfgadm -c unconfigure -o unusable_SCSI_LUN c0::210000203708b606
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/cfgadm/fp.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hardware-specific library for Fibre Channel Fabric device node
management.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/cfg/fp/fabric_WWN_map
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Repository of physical
.BR ap_id s
of Fabric devices currently configured.
It is used only to reconfigure those Fabric devices at boot time. This
repository is only used when the "manual_configuration_only"
.B /kernel/drv/fp.conf
file is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/rcS.d/fdevattach
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigures Fabric device(s) of which physical
.B ap_id
is listed in
.B /etc/cfg/fp/fabric_WWN_map
on boot time.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcfpl, SUNWcfplx
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR cfgadm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR config_admin (3CFGADM),
.BR libcfgadm (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR fp (7D)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Do not use hardware-specific options for the repository update under normal
\fBconfigure\fR/\fBunconfigure\fR operations. The hardware-specific options
are expected to be used when the node creation of a Fabric device fails at
boot time and the error condition is considered to be permanent. The
.B unconfigure
command with
.B force_update
hardware-specific option
unconditionally removes the attachment point of a failing Fabric device from
the repository.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For devices with unknown or no SCSI device type (for example, a Fibre
Channel Host Bus Adapter), the
.B configure
operation might not be
applicable.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR configure " and "
.B unconfigure
commands operate on the Fibre
Channel device level which is represented by port WWN ap_id. If a Fibre
Channel device has multiple FCP SCSI LUNs configured, the
.B configure
command on the associated port WWN ap_id results in creating a Solaris
device for each
.B "FCP SCSI LUN"
unless it is specified in the
"pwwn-lun-blacklist" property in the \fBfp.conf\fR file. The
.B unconfigure
command removes all Solaris devices associated with the
port WWN ap_id. The
.B "FCP SCSI LUN"
level ap_id is not valid for the
.B configure
and
.B unconfigure
commands.
.sp
.LP
The deprecated
.B show_FCP_dev
option has been replaced by the new
.B show_SCSI_LUN
option, and the deprecated
.B unusable_FCP_dev
option
has been replaced by the new
.B unusable_SCSI_LUN
option.
.sp
.LP
The
.B cfgadm_fp
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/device/fc-fabric:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
No administrative actions on this service are required for Fabric device
configuration once this service is started on boot time.
