'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cfgadm_cardbus 1M "11 July 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
cfgadm_cardbus \- cardbus hardware specific commands for cfgadm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-f \fR] [\fB-y \fR | \fB-n \fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR] \fB-c\fI function\fR \fIap_id\fR [\fIap_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-f \fR] [\fB-y \fR | \fB-n \fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR] \fB-x\fI hardware_function\fR \fIap_id\fR
     [\fIap_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIlisting_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_options\fR] [\fB-l\fR [\fIap_id\fR | \fIap_type\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIharware_options\fR] \fB-t\fR \fIap_id\fR [\fIap_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/cfgadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIhardware_function\fR] \fB-h\fR
     [\fIap_id\fR| \fI ap_type\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The CardBus slots in Solaris are hot plug capable. This capability is
supported by the
.B PCI
hardware specific library
.B /usr/lib/cfgadm/pci.so.1
through the
.B cfgadm
command (see
.BR cfgadm (1M)).
.sp
.LP
The hot plug administrative models between CardBus, PCI, CompactPCI, and
PCI Express operate the same fashion. Please refer to
.BR cfgadm_pci (1M)
for the usage information.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cfgadm (1M),
.BR config_admin (3CFGADM),
.BR libcfgadm (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
