'\" te
.\" This manual page is based on documentation obtained from Karl Fox.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH chat 1M "4 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
chat \- automated conversational exchange tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBchat\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIscript\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B chat
program implements a conversational text-based exchange
between the computer and any serial device, including (but not limited to) a
modem, an ISDN TA, and the remote peer itself, establishing a connection
between the Point-To-Point Protocol daemon (\fBpppd\fR) and the remote
\fBpppd\fR process.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B chat
command supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fI<chat file>\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Read the
.B chat
script from the
.B chat
file. This option is
mutually exclusive with the
.B chat
script parameters. You must have
\fBread\fR access to use the file. Multiple lines are permitted in the file.
Use the space or horizontal tab characters to separate the strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fI<timeout>\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the timeout for the expected string to be received. If the string is
not received within the time limit, the reply string is not sent. If
specified, a 'subexpect' (alternate reply) string can be sent. Otherwise, if
no alternate reply strings remain, the
.B chat
script fails.. A failed
script will cause the
.B chat
program to terminate with a non-zero error
code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR \fI<report file>\fR 
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the file for output of the report strings. If you use the keyword
.BR REPORT ,
the resulting strings are written to this file. If the
\fB-r\fR option is not used and you use the \fBREPORT\fR keyword, the
\fBstderr\fR file is used for the report strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Start with the echo option turned on. You turn echo on or off at specific
points in the
.B chat
script using the
.B ECHO
keyword. When echoing
is enabled, all output from the modem is echoed to
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Enables environment variable substitution within
.B chat
scripts using
the standard
.I $xxx
syntax.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Request that the
.B chat
script execute in a verbose mode. The
\fBchat\fR program logs the execution state of the \fBchat\fR script as well
as all text received from the modem and output strings sent to the modem.
The default is to log through \fBsyslog\fR(3C) with facility \fBlocal\fR2;
the logging method is alterable using the
.B -S
and
.B -s
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Request that the
.B chat
script be executed in a
.B stderr
verbose
mode. The
.B chat
program logs all text received from the modem and
output strings sent to the modem to
.BR stderr .
\fBstderr\fR is usually
the local console at the station running the
.B chat
or
.BR pppd
program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Use
.BR stderr .
Log messages from
.B -v
and error messages are sent
to
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Do not use syslog.  By default, error messages are set to syslog. This
option prevents log messages from
.B -v
and error messages from being
sent to syslog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fI<phone number>\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Pass in an arbitrary string (usually a telephone number) that will be
substituted for the \fB\eT\fR substitution metacharacter in a send string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-U\fR \fI<phone number 2>\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Pass in a second string (usually a telephone number) that will be
substituted for the \fB\eU\fR substitution metacharacter in a send string.
This is useful when dialing an ISDN terminal adapter that requires two
numbers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B script
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
If the script is not specified in a file with the \fB-f\fR option, the
script is included as parameters to the
.B chat
program.
.RE

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.SS "Chat Script"
.sp
.LP
The
.B chat
script defines communications. A script consists of one or
more "expect-send" pairs of strings separated by spaces, with an optional
"subexpect-subsend" string pair, separated by a dash (as in the following
example:)
.sp
.LP
ogin:-BREAK-ogin: ppp ssword: hello2u2
.sp
.LP
The example indicates that the
.B chat
program should expect the string
"ogin:". If it fails to receive a login prompt within the time interval
allotted, it sends a break sequence to the remote and then expects the
string "ogin:". If the first "ogin:" is received, the break sequence is not
generated.
.sp
.LP
Upon receiving the login prompt, the
.B chat
program sends the string
"ppp" and then expects the prompt "ssword:". When the password prompt is
received, it sends the password hello2u2.
.sp
.LP
A carriage return is normally sent following the reply string. It is not
expected in the "expect" string unless it is specifically requested by using
the \fB\er\fR character sequence.
.sp
.LP
The expect sequence should contain only what is needed to identify the
received data. Because it's stored on a disk file, it should not contain
variable information. Generally it is not acceptable to look for time
strings, network identification strings, or other variable pieces of data as
an expect string.
.sp
.LP
To correct for characters that are corrupted during the initial sequence,
look for the string "ogin:" rather than "login:". The leading "l" character
may be received in error, creating problems in finding the string. For this
reason, scripts look for "ogin:" rather than "login:" and "ssword:" rather
than "password:".
.sp
.LP
An example of a simple script follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ogin: ppp ssword: hello2u2
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The example can be intrepreted as: expect ogin:, send ppp, expect
\&.\|.\|.ssword:, send hello2u2.
.sp
.LP
When login to a remote peer is necessary, simple scripts are rare. At
minimum, you should include sub-expect sequences in case the original string
is not received. For example, consider the following script:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ogin:--ogin: ppp ssword: hello2u2
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This script is more effective than the simple one used earlier. The string
looks for the same login prompt; however, if one is not received, a single
return sequence is sent and then the script looks for login: again. If line
noise obscures the first login prompt, send the empty line to generate a
login prompt again.
.SS "Comments"
.sp
.LP
Comments can be embedded in the
.B chat
script. Comment lines are
ignored by the chat program. A comment starts with the hash ("#") character
in column one. If a
.B #
character is expected as the first character of
the expect sequence, quote the expect string. If you want to wait for a
prompt that starts with a
.B #
character, write something like this:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# Now wait for the prompt and send logout string
\&'# ' logout
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Sending Data From A File"
.sp
.LP
If the string to send begins with an at sign ("@"), the remainder of the
string is interpreted as the name of the file that contains the string. If
the last character of the data read is a newline, it is removed. The file
can be a named pipe (or fifo) instead of a regular file. This enables
\fBchat\fR to communicate with another program, for example, a program to
prompt the user and receive a password typed in.
.SS "Abort "
.sp
.LP
Many modems report the status of a call as a string. These status strings
are often "CONNECTED" or "NO CARRIER" or "BUSY." If the modem fails to
connect to the remote, you can terminate the script. Abort strings may be
specified in the script using the ABORT sequence. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' '' ATZ OK ATDT5551212 CONNECT
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This sequence expects nothing and sends the string ATZ. The expected
response is the string OK. When OK is received, the string ATDT5551212 dials
the telephone. The expected string is CONNECT. If CONNECT is received, the
remainder of the script is executed. When the modem finds a busy telephone,
it sends the string BUSY, causing the string to match the abort character
sequence. The script fails because it found a match to the abort string. If
the NO CARRIER string is received, it aborts for the same reason.
.SS "Clr_Abort "
.sp
.LP
The CLR_ABORT sequence clears previously set ABORT strings. ABORT strings
are kept in an array of a pre-determined size; CLR_ABORT reclaims the space
for cleared entries, enabling new strings to use that space.
.SS "Say "
.sp
.LP
The SAY string enables the script to send strings to a user at a terminal
via standard error. If
.B chat
is being run by
.B pppd
and
.BR pppd
is running as a daemon (detached from its controlling terminal), standard
error is normally redirected to the
.B /etc/ppp/connect-errors
file.
.sp
.LP
SAY strings must be enclosed in single or double quotes. If carriage return
and line feed are required for the output, you must explicitly add them to
your string.
.sp
.LP
The SAY string can provide progress messages to users even with "ECHO OFF."
For example, add a line similar to the following to the script:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ABORT BUSY
ECHO OFF
SAY "Dialing your ISP.\|.\|.\en"
\&'' ATDT5551212
TIMEOUT 120
SAY "Waiting up to 2 minutes for connection .\|.\|."
CONNECT ''
SAY "Connected, now logging in .\|.\|.\en"
ogin: account
ssword: pass
$ \ec
SAY "Logged in OK .\|.\|. \en"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This sequence hides script detail while presenting the SAY string to the
user. In this case, you will see:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Dialing your ISP.\|.\|.
Waiting up to 2 minutes for connection.\|.\|.Connected, now logging in.\|.\|.
Logged in OK .\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Report"
.sp
.LP
REPORT is similar to the ABORT string. With REPORT, however, strings and
all characters to the next control character (such as a carriage return),
are written to the report file.
.sp
.LP
REPORT strings can be used to isolate a modem's transmission rate from its
CONNECT string and return the value to the
.B chat
user. Analysis of the
REPORT string logic occurs in conjunction with other string processing, such
as looking for the expect string. It's possible to use the same string for a
REPORT and ABORT sequence, but probably not useful.
.sp
.LP
Report strings may be specified in the script using the REPORT sequence.
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
REPORT CONNECT
ABORT BUSY
ATDT5551212 CONNECT
ogin: account
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The above sequence expects nothing, then sends the string ATDT5551212 to
dial the telephone. The expected string is CONNECT. If CONNECT is received,
the remainder of the script is executed. In addition, the program writes the
string CONNECT to the report file (specified by
.BR -r )
in addition to any
characters that follow.
.SS "Clr_Report"
.sp
.LP
CLR_REPORT clears previously set REPORT strings. REPORT strings are kept in
an array of a pre-determined size; CLR_REPORT reclaims the space for cleared
entries so that new strings can use that space.
.SS "Echo"
.sp
.LP
ECHO determines if modem output is echoed to
.BR stderr .
This option may
be set with the
.B -e
option, but can also be controlled by the ECHO
keyword. The "expect-send" pair  ECHO ON enables echoing, and ECHO OFF
disables it. With ECHO, you can select which parts of the conversation
should be visible. In the following script:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ABORT   'BUSY'
ABORT   'NO CARRIER'
""    AT&F
OK\er\en  ATD1234567
\er\en    \ec
ECHO    ON
CONNECT \ec
ogin:   account
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All output resulting from modem configuration and dialing is not visible,
but output is echoed beginning with the CONNECT (or BUSY) message.
.SS "Hangup"
.sp
.LP
The HANGUP option determines if a modem hangup is considered as an error.
HANGUP is useful for dialing systems that hang up and call your system back.
HANGUP can be ON or OFF. When HANGUP is set to OFF and the modem hangs up
(for example, following the first stage of logging in to a callback system),
\fBchat\fR continues running the script (for example, waiting for the
incoming call and second stage login prompt). When the incoming call is
connected, use the HANGUP ON string to reinstall normal hang up signal
behavior. An example of a simple script follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ABORT   'BUSY'
 ""  AT&F
 OK\er\en  ATD1234567
 \er\en    \ec
 CONNECT \ec
 'Callback login:' call_back_ID
 HANGUP OFF
 ABORT "Bad Login"
 'Callback Password:' Call_back_password
 TIMEOUT 120
 CONNECT \ec
 HANGUP ON
 ABORT "NO CARRIER"
 ogin:--BREAK--ogin: real_account
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Timeout"
.sp
.LP
The initial timeout value is 45 seconds. Use the
.B -t
parameter to
change the intial timeout value.
.sp
.LP
To change the timeout value for the next expect string, the following
example can be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&''"AT&F
 OK ATDT5551212
 CONNECT \ec
 TIMEOUT 10
 ogin:--ogin: username
 TIMEOUT 5
 assword: hello2u2
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The example changes the timeout to ten seconds when it expects the login:
prompt. The timeout is changed to five seconds when it looks for the
password prompt.
.sp
.LP
Once changed, the timeout value remains in effect until it is changed
again.
.SS " EOT"
.sp
.LP
The EOT special reply string instructs the
.B chat
program to send an
EOT character to the remote. This is equivalent to using ^D\ec as the reply
string. The EOT string normally indicates the end-of-file character
sequence. A return character is not sent following the EOT. The EOT sequence
can embedded into the send string using the sequence ^D.
.SS " BREAK"
.sp
.LP
The BREAK special reply string sends a break condition. The break is a
special transmitter signal. Many UNIX systems handle break by cycling
through available bit rates, and sending break is often needed when the
remote system does not support autobaud.  BREAK is equivalent to using
\eK\ec as the reply string. You embed the break sequence into the send
string using the \eK sequence.
.SS "Escape Sequences"
.sp
.LP
Expect and reply strings can contain escape sequences. Reply strings accept
all escape sequences, while expect strings accept most sequences. A list of
escape sequences is presented below. Sequences that are not accepted by
expect strings are indicated.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&''\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Expects or sends a null string. If you send a null string, \fBchat\fR
sends the return character.  If you expect a null string, \fBchat\fR
proceeds to the reply string without waiting.  This sequence can be a pair
of apostrophes or quote mark characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eb\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Represents a backspace character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ec\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Suppresses the newline at the end of the reply string. This is the only
method to send a string without a trailing return character. This sequence
must be at the end of the send string. For example, the sequence hello\ec
will simply send the characters h, e, l, l, o. (Not valid  in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ed\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Delay for one second. The program uses
.BR sleep (1)
which delays to a
maximum of one second.  (Not valid  in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eK\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insert a BREAK.  (Not valid  in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\en\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send a newline or linefeed character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send a null character. The same sequence may be represented by \e0.  (Not
valid in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ep\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pause for 1/10th of a second.  (Not valid  in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eq\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Suppress writing the string to syslog.  The string ?????? is written to the
log in its place. (Not valid  in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\er\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send or expect a carriage return.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\es\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Represents a space character in the string. Can be used when it is not
desirable to quote the strings which contains spaces. The sequence 'HI\ TIM'
and HI\esTIM are the same.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\et\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send or expect a tab character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eT\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send the phone number string as specified with the
.B -T
option.  (Not
valid in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eU\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send the phone number 2 string as specified with the
.B -U
option. (Not
valid in expect.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\e\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send or expect a backslash character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eddd\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Collapse the octal digits (ddd) into a single ASCII character and send that
character. (\e000 is not valid in an expect string.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ^C
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Substitute the sequence with the control character represented by C. For
example, the character DC1 (17) is shown as ^Q. (Some characters are not
valid in expect.)
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
Environment variables are available within
.B chat
scripts if the
\fB-E\fR option is specified on the command line. The metacharacter \fB$\fR
introduces the name of the environment variable to substitute. If the
substition fails because the requested environment variable is not set,
nothing is replaced for the variable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The
.B chat
program terminates with the following completion codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Normal program termination. Indicates that the script was executed without
error to normal conclusion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
One or more of the parameters are invalid or an expect string was too large
for the internal buffers. Indicates that the program was not properly
executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An error occurred during the execution of the program. This may be due to a
read or write operation failing or
.B chat
receiving a signal such as
SIGINT.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A timeout event occurred when there was an expect string without having a
"-subsend" string. This indicates that you may not have programmed the
script correctly for the condition or that an unexpected event occurred and
the expected string could not be found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The first string marked as an ABORT condition occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 5
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The second string marked as an ABORT condition occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 6
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The third string marked as an ABORT  condition occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 7
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The fourth string marked as an ABORT condition occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The other termination codes are also strings marked as an ABORT
condition.
.RE

.sp
.LP
To determine which event terminated the script, use the termination code.
It is possible to decide if the string "BUSY" was received from the modem
versus "NO DIALTONE." While the first event may be retried, the second
probably will not succeed during a retry.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpppdu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sleep (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR pppd (1M),
.BR uucico (1M),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Additional information on
.B chat
scripts are available with UUCP
documentation. The
.B chat
script format was taken from scripts used by
the
.B uucico
program.
