'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cryptoadm 1M "1 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
cryptoadm \- cryptographic framework administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR list [\fB-mpv\fR] [provider=\fIprovider-name\fR]
     [mechanism=\fImechanism-list\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR disable
     provider=\fIprovider-name\fR mechanism=\fImechanism-list\fR | random | all
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR enable
     provider=\fIprovider-name\fR mechanism=\fImechanism-list\fR | random | all
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR install provider=\fIprovider-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR install provider=\fIprovider-name\fR
     [mechanism=\fImechanism-list\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR uninstall provider=\fIprovider-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR unload provider=\fIprovider-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR disable fips-140
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR enable fips-140
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR list fips-140
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR refresh
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR start
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR stop
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcryptoadm\fR \fB-\fB-help\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cryptoadm
utility displays cryptographic provider information for
a system, configures the mechanism policy for each provider, and installs or
uninstalls a cryptographic provider. The cryptographic framework supports
three types of providers: a user-level provider (a PKCS11 shared library), a
kernel software provider (a loadable kernel software module), and a kernel
hardware provider (a cryptographic hardware device).
.sp
.LP
For kernel software providers, the
.B cryptoadm
utility provides the
.B unload
subcommand. This subcommand instructs the kernel to unload a
kernel software providers.
.sp
.LP
For the cryptographic framework's metaslot, the
.B cryptoadm
utility
provides subcommands to enable and disable the metaslot's features, list
metaslot's configuration, specify alternate persistent object storage, and
configure the metaslot's mechanism policy.
.sp
.LP
The
.B cryptoadm
utility provides subcommands to enable and disable
.RB "FIPS-140 mode in the Cryptographic Framework. It also provides a" " list"
subcommand to display the current status of FIPS-140 mode.
.sp
.LP
Administrators will find it useful to use
.B syslog
facilities (see
.BR syslogd (1M)
and
.BR logadm "(1M)) to maintain the cryptographic"
subsystem. Logging can be especially useful under the following
circumstances:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If kernel-level daemon is dead, all applications fail. You can learn this
from syslog and use
.BR svcadm "(1M) to restart the"
.B svc:/system/cryptosvc
service.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If there are bad providers plugged into the framework, you can learn this
from syslog and remove the bad providers from the framework.
.RE
.sp
.LP
With the exception of the subcommands or options listed below, the
.B cryptoadm
command needs to be run by a privileged user.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
subcommand
.BR list ,
any options
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
subcommand
.BR --help
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B cryptoadm
utility has the various combinations of subcommands and
options shown below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the list of installed providers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm list metaslot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the system-wide configuration for metaslot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm list
.B -m
.BI "[ provider=" provider-name
|
metaslot ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a list of mechanisms that can be used with the installed providers
or metaslot. If a provider is specified, display the name of the specified
provider and the mechanism list that can be used with that provider. If the
metaslot keyword is specified, display the list of mechanisms that can be
used with metaslot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm list
.B -p
.BI "[ provider=" provider-name
|
metaslot ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the mechanism policy (that is, which mechanisms are available and
which are not) for the installed providers. Also display the provider
feature policy or metaslot. If a provider is specified, display the name of
the provider with the mechanism policy enforced on it only. If the metaslot
keyword is specified, display the mechanism policy enforced on the
metaslot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "cryptoadm list"
.B -v
\fBprovider=\fIprovider-name\fR |
metaslot\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display details about the specified provider if a provider is specified. If
the metaslot keyword is specified, display details about the metaslot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For the various
.B list
subcommands described above (except for
.BR "list -p" ),
the
.B -v
(verbose) option provides details about
providers, mechanisms and slots.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "disable provider=" provider-name
.ad
.br
.na
.BI "[ mechanism=" mechanism-list
| \fIprovider-feature\fR \fB\&.\|.\|. |\fR
.BR all " ]"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the mechanisms or provider features specified for the provider. See
OPERANDS for a description of
.IR mechanism ,
.IR provider-feature ,
and
the
.B all
keyword.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "[ mechanism=" mechanism-list
] [ auto-key-migrate
]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the metaslot feature in the cryptographic framework or disable some
of metaslot's features. If no operand is specified, this command disables
the metaslot feature in the cryptographic framework. If a list of mechanisms
is specified, disable mechanisms specified for metaslot. If all mechanisms
are disabled for metaslot, the metaslot will be disabled. See OPERANDS for a
description of mechanism. If the
.B auto-key-migrate
keyword is
specified, it disables the migration of sensitive token objects to other
slots even if it is necessary for performing crypto operations. See OPERANDS
for a description of
.BR auto-key-migrate .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "enable provider=" provider-name
.ad
.br
.na
.BI "[ mechanism=" mechanism-list
| \fIprovider-feature\fR \fB\&.\|.\|. |\fR
.BR all " ]"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable the mechanisms or provider features specified for the provider. See
OPERANDS for a description of
.IR mechanism ,
.IR provider-feature ,
and
the
.B all
keyword.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "enable metaslot [ mechanism=" mechanism-list
]
|\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB[ [ token=\fItoken-label\fR] [ slot=\fIslot-description\fR] |\fR
.ad
.br
.na
.B "default-keystore ] | [ auto-key-migrate ]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If no operand is specified, this command enables the metaslot feature in
the cryptographic framework. If a list of mechanisms is specified, it
enables only the list of specified mechanisms for metaslot. If
.I token-label
is specified, the specified token will be used as the
persistent object store. If the
.I slot-description
is specified, the
specified slot will be used as the persistent object store. If both the
.I token-label
and the
.I slot-description
are specified, the provider
with the matching token label and slot description is used as the persistent
object store. If the
.B default-keystore
keyword is specified, metaslot
will use the default persistent object store. If the
.B auto-key-migrate
keyword is specified, sensitive token objects will automatically migrate to
other slots as needed to complete certain crypto operations. See OPERANDS
for a description of mechanism, token, slot,
.BR default-keystore ,
and
.BR auto-key-migrate .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "install provider=" provider-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install a user-level provider into the system. The
.I provider
operand
must be an absolute pathname of the corresponding shared library. If there
are both 32-bit and 64-bit versions for a library, this command should be
run once only with the path name containing
.BR $ISA .
Note that
.BR $ISA
is not a reference to an environment variable. Note also that
.B $ISA
must be quoted (with single quotes [for example, \fB\&'$ISA'\fR]) or the
.B $
must be escaped to keep it from being incorrectly expanded by the
shell. The user-level framework expands
.B $ISA
to an empty string or an
architecture-specific directory, for example,
.BR sparcv9 .
.sp
The preferred way of installing a user-level provider is to build a package
for the provider. For more information, see the \fISolaris Security for Developer's Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "install provider=" provider-name
.ad
.br
.na
.BI mechanism= mechanism-list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install a kernel software provider into the system. The provider should
contain the base name only. The
.I mechanism-list
operand specifies the
complete list of mechanisms to be supported by this provider.
.sp
The preferred way of installing a kernel software provider is to build a
package for providers. For more information, see the \fISolaris Security for Developer's Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "uninstall provider=" provider-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uninstall the specified
.I provider
and the associated mechanism policy
from the system. This subcommand applies only to a user-level provider or a
kernel software provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm
.BI "unload provider=" provider-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unload the kernel software module specified by
.IR provider .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm disable fips-140
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable FIPS-140 mode in the Cryptographic Framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm enable fips-140
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable FIPS-140 mode in the Cryptographic Framework. This subcommand does
not disable the non-FIPS approved algorithms from the user-level
.B pkcs11_softtoken
library and the kernel software providers. It is the
consumers of the framework that are responsible for using only FIPS-approved
algorithms.
.sp
Upon completion of this subcommand, a message is issued to inform the
administrator that any plugins added that are not within the boundary might
invalidate FIPS compliance and to check the Security Policies for those
plugins. In addition, a warning message is issued to indicate that, in this
release, the Cryptographic Framework has not been FIPS 140-2 certified.
.sp
The system will require a reboot to perform Power-Up Self Tests that
include a cryptographic algorithm test and a software integrity test.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm list fips-140
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the current setting of FIPS-140 mode in the Cryptographic
Framework. The status of FIPS-140 mode is
.B enabled
or
.BR disabled .
The default FIPS-140 mode is
.BR disabled .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm refresh
.ad
.br
.na
.B cryptoadm start
.ad
.br
.na
.B cryptoadm stop
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Private interfaces for use by
.BR smf (5),
these must not be used
directly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cryptoadm -help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the command usage.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI provider= provider-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A user-level provider (a PKCS11 shared library), a kernel software provider
(a loadable kernel software module), or a kernel hardware provider (a
cryptographic hardware device).
.sp
A valid value of the
.I provider
operand is one entry from the output of
a command of the form:
.B cryptoadm
.IR list .
A
.I provider
operand
for a user-level provider is an absolute pathname of the corresponding
shared library. A
.I provider
operand for a kernel software provider
contains a base name only. A
.I provider
operand for a kernel hardware
provider is in a "\fIname\fR/\fInumber\fR" form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI mechanism= mechanism-list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma separated list of one or more PKCS #11 mechanisms. A process for
implementing a cryptographic operation as defined in PKCS #11 specification.
You can substitute
.B all
for
.IR mechanism-list ,
to specify all
mechanisms on a provider. See the discussion of the
.B all
keyword,
below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I provider-feature
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A cryptographic framework feature for the given provider. Currently only
.B random
is accepted as a feature. For a user-level provider, disabling
the random feature makes the PKCS #11 routines
.B C_GenerateRandom
and
.B C_SeedRandom
unavailable from the provider. For a kernel provider,
disabling the random feature prevents
.B /dev/random
from gathering
random numbers from the provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The keyword all can be used with with the
.B disable
and
.BR enable
subcommands to operate on all provider features.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI token= token-label
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The label of a token in one of the providers in the cryptographic
framework.
.sp
A valid value of the token operand is an item displayed under "Token Label"
from the output of the command
.B "cryptoadm list"
.BR -v .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI slot= slot-description
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The description of a slot in one of the providers in the cryptographic
framework.
.sp
A valid value of the slot operand is an item displayed under "Description"
from the output of the command
.B "cryptoadm list"
.BR -v .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B default-keystore
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The keyword
.B default-keystore
is valid only for metaslot. Specify this
keyword to set the persistent object store for metaslot back to using the
default store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auto-key-migrate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The keyword auto-key-migrate is valid only for metaslot. Specify this
keyword to configure whether metaslot is allowed to move sensitive token
objects from the token object slot to other slots for performing
cryptographic operations.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The keyword
.B all
can be used in two ways with the
.B disable
and
.B enable
subcommands:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You can substitute
.B all
for \fBmechanism\fR=\fImechanism-list\fR, as
in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcryptoadm enable provider=dca/0 all\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This command enables the mechanisms on the provider
.B and
any other
provider-features, such as
.BR random .
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcryptoadm enable provider=des mechanism=all\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You can also use
.B all
as an argument to
.BR mechanism ,
as in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcryptoadm enable provider=des mechanism=all\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.which enables all mechanisms on the provider, but enables no other
provider-features, such as
.BR random .
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Display List of Providers Installed in System
.sp
.LP
The following command displays a list of all installed providers:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcryptoadm list\fR
user-level providers:
/usr/lib/security/$ISA/pkcs11_kernel.so
/usr/lib/security/$ISA/pkcs11_softtoken.so
/opt/lib/libcryptoki.so.1
/opt/SUNWconn/lib/$ISA/libpkcs11.so.1

kernel software providers:
    des
    aes
    bfish
    sha1
    md5

kernel hardware providers:
    dca/0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Display Mechanism List for
.B md5
Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command is a variation of the
.B list
subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcryptoadm list -m provider=md5\fR
md5: CKM_MD5,CKM_MD5_HMAC,CKM_MD5_HMAC_GENERAL
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Disable Specific Mechanisms for Kernel Software Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command disables mechanisms
.B CKM_DES3_ECB
and
.B CKM_DES3_CBC
for the kernel software provider
.BR des :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm disable provider=des\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Display Mechanism Policy for a Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the mechanism policy for the
.BR des
provider:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcryptoadm list -p provider=des\fR
des: All mechanisms are enabled, except CKM_DES3_ECB, CKM_DES3_CBC
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Enable Specific Mechanism for a Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command enables the
.B CKM_DES3_ECB
mechanism for the
kernel software provider
.BR des :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm enable provider=des mechanism=CKM_DES3_ECB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Install User-Level Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a user-level provider:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm install provider=/opt/lib/libcryptoki.so.1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Install User-Level Provider That Contains 32- and 64-bit
Versions
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a user-level provider that contains both
32-bit and 64-bit versions:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm install \e\fR
provider=/opt/SUNWconn/lib/'$ISA'/libpkcs11.so.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 8
Uninstall a Provider
.sp
.LP
The following command uninstalls the
.B md5
provider:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm uninstall provider=md5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 9
Disable metaslot
.sp
.LP
The following command disables the metaslot feature in the cryptographic
framework.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm disable metaslot\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 10
Specify metaslot to Use Specified Token as Persistent
Object Store
.sp
.LP
The following command specifies that metaslot use the Venus token as the
persistent object store.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBcryptoadm enable metaslot token="SUNW,venus"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR start ,
.BR stop ,
and
.B refresh
options are Private
interfaces. All other options are Evolving. The utility name is Stable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR logadm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR libpkcs11 (3LIB),
.BR exec_attr (4),
.BR prof_attr (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR random (7D)
.sp
.LP

.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developer's Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If a hardware provider's policy was made explicitly (that is, some of its
mechanisms were disabled) and the hardware provider has been detached, the
policy of this hardware provider is still listed.
.sp
.LP
.B cryptoadm
assumes that, minimally, a 32-bit shared object is
delivered for each user-level provider. If both a 32-bit and 64-bit shared
object are delivered, the two versions must provide the same functionality.
The same mechanism policy applies to both.
