'\" te
.\" Copyright 2005 (c), Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dcs 1M "25 Apr 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dcs \- domain configuration server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/dcs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsessions\fR]
     [ [\fB-a\fR \fIauth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIencr\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIesp_auth\fR] ] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Domain Configuration Server (DCS) is a daemon process that runs on Sun
servers that support remote Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR) clients. It is
started by the Service Management Facility (see
.BR smf (5))
when the first
DR request is received from a client connecting to the network service
.BR sun-dr .
After the DCS accepts a DR request, it uses the
\fBlibcfgadm\fR(3LIB) interface to execute the DR operation. After the
operation is performed, the results are returned to the client.
.sp
.LP
The DCS listens on the network service labeled
.BR sun-dr .
Its underlying
protocol is TCP. It is invoked as a server program by the SMF using the TCP
transport. The fault management resource identifier (FMRI) for DCS is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you disable this service, DR operations initiated from a remote host
fail. There is no negative impact on the server.
.sp
.LP
Security for the DCS connection is provided differently based upon the
architecture of the system. The SMF specifies the correct options when
invoking the DCS daemon, based upon the current architecture. For all
architectures, security is provided on a per-connection basis.
.sp
.LP
The DCS daemon has no security options that are applicable when used on a
Sun Enterprise 10000 system. So there are no options applicable to that
architecture.
.sp
.LP
The security options for Sun Fire high-end systems are based on IPsec
options defined as SMF properties. These options include the \fB-a\fR
.IR auth ,
.B -e
.IR encr ,
and
.B -u
\fIesp_auth\fR options, and can
be set using the \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) command. These options must match the IPsec
policies defined for DCS on the system controller. Refer to the \fBkmd(1M)\fR
man page in the
.IR "System Management Services (SMS) Reference Manual" .
The
\fBkmd(1M)\fR man page is not part of the SunOS man page collection.
.sp
.LP
Security on SPARC Enterprise Servers is not configurable. The DCS daemon
uses a platform-specific library to configure its security options when
running on such systems. The
.B -l
option is provided by the SMF when
invoking the DCS daemon on SPARC Enterprise Servers. No other security
options to the DCS daemon should be used on SPARC Enterprise Servers.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIauth\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Controls the IPsec Authentication Header (AH) algorithm.
.I auth
can be
one of
.BR none ,
.BR md5 ,
or
.BR sha1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fIencr\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Controls the IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) encryption
algorithm.
.I encr
can be one of
.BR none ,
.BR des ,
or
.BR 3des .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Enables the use of platform-specific security options on SPARC Enterprise
Servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIsessions\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Sets the number of active sessions that the DCS allows at any one time. When
the limit is reached, the DCS stops accepting connections until active
sessions complete the execution of their DR operation. If this option is not
specified, a default value of 128 is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR \fIesp_auth\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Controls the IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) authentication
algorithm.
.I esp_auth
can be one of
.BR none ,
.BR md5 ,
or
.BR sha1 .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Setting an IPSec Option
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the Authentication Header algorithm for the DCS
daemon to use the HMAC-MD5 authentication algorithm. These settings are only
applicable for using the DCS daemon on a Sun Fire high-end system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/ah_auth = "md5"\fR
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/esp_encr = "none"\fR
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/esp_auth = "none"\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The DCS uses \fBsyslog\fR(3C) to report status and error messages. All of
the messages are logged with the
.B LOG_DAEMON
facility. Error messages
are logged with the
.B LOG_ERR
and
.B LOG_NOTICE
priorities, and
informational messages are logged with the
.B LOG_INFO
priority. The
default entries in the \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR file log all of the DCS error
messages to the
.B /var/adm/messages
log.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdcsu, SUNWdcsr
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
\fBcfgadm_sbd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M),
.BR syslog (3C),
\fBconfig_admin\fR(3CFGADM), \fBlibcfgadm\fR(3LIB),
.BR syslog.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR dr (7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B dcs
service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the fault management resource identifier (FMRI):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
