'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH device_remap 1M "24 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
device_remap \- administer the Solaris I/O remapping feature
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4v/sbin/device_remap\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-R\fR \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Certain multi-node sun4v platforms, such as T5440 and T5240 servers, have
an integrated PCI topology that cause the I/O device paths to change in a
CPU node failover condition. The device remapping script,
.BR device_remap ,
remaps the device paths in
.B /etc/path_to_inst
file
and the symlinks under
.B /dev
to match the hardware.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the
.B /etc/path_to_inst
and
.B /dev
symlink changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I dir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Perform remapping on the
.B /etc/path_to_inst
and
.B /etc/path_to_inst
files in the root image at
.IR dir .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The primary function of
.B device_remap
is to remap the device paths in
the
.B /etc/path_to_inst
file and the symlinks under
.B /dev
in a CPU
node failover condition to match the hardware.
.sp
.LP
After adding CPU node(s) or removing CPU node(s), boot the system to the
OBP prompt and use the following procedure:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Boot either the failsafe miniroot using:
.B "boot -F"
.B failsafe
, or an install miniroot using
.B "boot net"
.B -s
or similar command.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Mount the root disk as
.BR /mnt .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Change directory to the mounted root disk:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBcd /mnt\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Run
.B device_remap
script:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fB/mnt/usr/platform/sun4v/sbin/device_remap\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Boot the system from disk.
.RE
.sp
.LP
All the error messages are self-explanatory, except for the error message
"missing ioaliases node" which means the firmware on the system does not
support device remapping.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying Changes Following Failover
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the
.B path_to_inst
and
.BR /dev
changes following a CPU node failover.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdevice_remap -v\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Changing Directory Prior to Any Changes
.sp
.LP
The following command changes the directory on which the boot image is
mounted prior to making any changes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdevice_remap -R /newroot\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkvm.v
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR boot (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
