'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved Portions
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH df 1M "26 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
df \- displays number of free disk blocks and free files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/df\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-abeghklntVvZ\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR]
     [\fIblock_device\fR | \fIdirectory\fR | \fIfile\fR | \fIresource\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/df\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-abeghklnPtVZ\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR]
     [\fIblock_device\fR | \fIdirectory\fR | \fIfile\fR | \fIresource\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B df
utility displays the amount of disk space occupied by mounted
or unmounted file systems, the amount of used and available space, and how
much of the file system's total capacity has been used. The file system is
specified by device, or by referring to a file or directory on the specified
file system.
.sp
.LP
Used without operands or options,
.B df
reports on all mounted file
systems.
.sp
.LP
.B df
may not be supported for all
.IR FSTypes .
.sp
.LP
If
.B df
is run on a networked mount point that the automounter has not
yet mounted, the file system size will be reported as zero. As soon as the
automounter mounts the file system, the sizes will be reported correctly.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for both
.B /usr/bin/df
and
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/df :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reports on all file systems including ones whose entries in
.B /etc/mnttab
(see
.BR mnttab (4))
have the
.B ignore
option set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the total number of kilobytes free.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints only the number of files free.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I FSType
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the
.I FSType
on which to operate. The
.B -F
option is
intended for use with unmounted file systems. The
.I FSType
should be
specified here or be determinable from
.B /etc/vfstab
(see
.BR vfstab (4))
by matching the
.IR directory ,
.IR block_device ,
or
.I resource
with an entry in the table, or by consulting
.BR /etc/default/fs .
See \fBdefault_fs\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the entire
.BR statvfs (2)
structure. This option is used only for
mounted file systems. It can not be used with the
.B -o
option. This
option overrides the
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -k ,
.BR -n ,
.BR -P ,
and
.B -t
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Like
.BR -k ,
except that sizes are in a more human readable format. The
output consists of one line of information for each specified file system.
This information includes the file system name, the total space allocated in
the file system, the amount of space allocated to existing files, the total
amount of space available for the creation of new files by unprivileged
users, and the percentage of normally available space that is currently
allocated to all files on the file system. All sizes are scaled to a human
readable format, for example,
.BR 14K ,
.BR 234M ,
.BR 2.7G ,
or
.BR 3.0T .
Scaling is done by repetitively dividing by
.BR 1024 .
.sp
This option overrides the
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -k ,
.BR -n ,
.BR -t ,
and
.B -V
options. This option only works on mounted
filesystems and can not be used together with
.B -o
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the allocation in kbytes. The output consists of one line of
information for each specified file system. This information includes the
file system name, the total space allocated in the file system, the amount
of space allocated to existing files, the total amount of space available
for the creation of new files by unprivileged users, and the percentage of
normally available space that is currently allocated to all files on the
file system. This option overrides the
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -n ,
and
.B -t
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reports on local file systems only. This option is used only for mounted
file systems. It can not be used with the
.B -o
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints only the
.I FSType
name. Invoked with no operands, this option
prints a list of mounted file system types. This option is used only for
mounted file systems. It can not be used with the
.B -o
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I FSType-specific_options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies
.I FSType-specific
options. These options are comma-separated,
with no intervening spaces. See the manual page for the
.I FSType-specific
command for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints full listings with totals. This option overrides the
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
and
.B -n
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Echoes the complete set of file system specific command lines, but does not
execute them. The command line is generated by using the options and
operands provided by the user and adding to them information derived from
.BR /etc/mnttab ,
.BR /etc/vfstab ,
or
.BR /etc/default/fs .
This option
may be used to verify and validate the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays mounts in all visible zones. By default,
.B df
only displays
mounts located within the current zone. This option has no effect in a
non-global zone.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/df"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported for
.B /usr/bin/df
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Like
.BR -k ,
except that sizes are displayed in multiples of the smallest
block size supported by each specified file system.
.sp
The output consists of one line of information for each file system. This
one line of information includes the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the file system's mount point
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the file system's name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the total number of blocks allocated to the file system
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the number of blocks allocated to existing files
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the number of blocks available for the creation of new files by
unprivileged users
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the percentage of blocks in use by files
.RE
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/df"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported for
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/df
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Same as
.B -h
except in 512-byte units.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The
.B df
utility interprets operands according to the following
precedence:
.IR block_device ,
.IR directory ,
.IR file .
The following
operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I block_device
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents a block special device (for example,
.BR /dev/dsk/c1d0s7 ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I directory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents a valid directory name.
.B df
reports on the file system that
contains
.IR directory .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents a valid file name.
.B df
reports on the file system that
contains
.IR file .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I resource
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents an
.B NFS
resource name.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B df
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Executing the
.B df
command
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the
.B df
command and its output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/bin/df\fR

/                  (/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s0 ):  287530 blocks    92028 files
/system/contract   (ctfs              ):       0 blocks 2147483572 files
/system/object     (objfs             ):       0 blocks 2147483511 files
/usr               (/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s6 ): 1020214 blocks   268550 files
/proc              (/proc             ):       0 blocks      878 files
/dev/fd            (fd                ):       0 blocks        0 files
/etc/mnttab        (mnttab            ):       0 blocks        0 files
/var/run           (swap              ):  396016 blocks     9375 files
/tmp               (swap              ):  396016 blocks     9375 files
/opt               (/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s5 ):  381552 blocks    96649 files
/export/home       (/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7 ):  434364 blocks   108220 files
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where the columns represent the mount point, device (or "filesystem",
according to
.BR "df -k" ),
free blocks, and free files, respectively.
For contract file systems,
.B /system/contract
is the mount point,
.B ctfs
is the contract file system (used by
.BR SMF )
with 0 free
blocks and 2147483582(\fBINTMAX\fR-1) free files. For object file systems,
.B /system/object
is the mount point,
.B objfs
is the object file
system (see \fBobjfs\fR(7FS)) with 0 free blocks and 2147483511 free
files.
.LP
.B Example 2
Writing Portable Information About the
.B /usr
File
System
.sp
.LP
The following example writes portable information about the
.B /usr
file
system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/df -P /usr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Writing Portable Information About the
.B /usr/src
file
System
.sp
.LP
Assuming that
.B /usr/src
is part of the
.B /usr
file system, the
following example writes portable information :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/df -P /usr/src\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Using
.B df
to Display Inode Usage
.sp
.LP
The following example displays inode usage on all
.B ufs
file systems:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example%\fB/usr/bin/df -F ufs -o i\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SYSV3
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This variable is used to override the default behavior of
.B df
and
provide compatibility with INTERACTIVE UNIX System and
.B SCO
UNIX
installation scripts. As the
.B SYSV3
variable is provided for
compatibility purposes only, it should not be used in new scripts.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When set, any header which normally displays "files" will now display
"nodes". See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR df :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/dsk/*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disk devices
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/default/fs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default local file system type. Default values can be set for the following
flags in
.BR /etc/default/fs .
For example:
.BR LOCAL=ufs ,
where
.B LOCAL
is the default partition for a command if no FSType is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mnttab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mount table
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/vfstab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List of default parameters for each file system
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/df"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/df"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR find (1),
.BR df_ufs (1M),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR statvfs (2),
.BR default_fs (4),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR vfstab (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR objfs (7FS)

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If
.B UFS
logging is enabled on a file system, the disk space used for
the log is reflected in the
.B df
report. The log is allocated from free
blocks on the file system, and it is sized approximately
.B 1
Mbyte per
.B 1
Gbyte of file system, up to 256 Mbytes. The log size may be larger
(up to a maximum of 512 Mbytes) depending on the number of  cylinder groups
present in the file system.
