'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dispadmin 1M "7 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dispadmin \- process scheduler administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdispadmin\fR \fB-l\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdispadmin\fR \fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR {\fB-g\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIres\fR] | \fB-s\fR \fIfile\fR}
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdispadmin\fR \fB-d\fR [\fIclass\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dispadmin
command displays or changes process scheduler
parameters while the system is running.
.sp
.LP
.B dispadmin
does limited checking on the values supplied in
.I file
to verify that they are within their required bounds. The checking, however,
does not attempt to analyze the effect that the new values have on the
performance of the system. Inappropriate values can have a negative effect
on system performance. (See \fISystem Administration Guide: Advanced Administration\fR.)
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I class
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the class whose parameters are to be displayed or changed. Valid
.I class
values are:
.B RT
for the real-time class,
.B TS
for the
time-sharing class,
.B IA
for the inter-active class,
.B FSS
for the
fair-share class, and FX for the fixed-priority class. The time-sharing and
inter-active classes share the same scheduler, so changes to the scheduling
parameters of one will change those of the other.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR [\fIclass\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets or displays the name of the default scheduling class to be used on
reboot when starting
.BR svc:/system/scheduler:default .
If class name is
not specified, the name and description of the current default scheduling
class is displayed. If class name is specified and is a valid scheduling
class name, then it is saved in
.BR dispadmin 's
private configuration file
.BR /etc/dispadmin.conf .
Only super-users can set the default scheduling
class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gets the parameters for the specified class and writes them to the standard
output. Parameters for the real-time class are described in
.BR rt_dptbl (4).
Parameters for the time-sharing and inter-active classes
are described in
.BR ts_dptbl (4).
Parameters for the fair-share class are
described in
.BR FSS (7).
Parameters for the fixed-priority class are
described in
.BR fx_dptbl (4).
.sp
The
.B -g
and
.B -s
options are mutually exclusive: you may not
retrieve the table at the same time you are overwriting it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the scheduler classes currently configured in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I res
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When using the
.B -g
option you may also use the
.B -r
option to
specify a resolution to be used for outputting the time quantum values. If
no resolution is specified, time quantum values are in milliseconds. If
.I res
is specified it must be a positive integer between 1 and
1000000000 inclusive, and the resolution used is the reciprocal of
.I res
in seconds. For example, a
.I res
value of 10 yields time quantum values
expressed in tenths of a second; a
.I res
value of 1000000 yields time
quantum values expressed in microseconds. If the time quantum cannot be
expressed as an integer in the specified resolution, it is rounded up to the
next integral multiple of the specified resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets scheduler parameters for the specified class using the values in
.IR file .
These values overwrite the current values in memory\(emthey
become the parameters that control scheduling of processes in the specified
class. The values in
.I file
must be in the format output by the \fB-g\fR
option. Moreover, the values must describe a table that is the same size
(has same number of priority levels) as the table being overwritten.
Super-user privileges are required in order to use the
.B -s
option.
.sp
Specify time quantum values for scheduling classes in system clock ticks,
and not in constant-time units. Time quantum values are based on the value
of the kernel's
.B hz
variable. If kernel variable
.B hires_tick
is
set to
.B 1
to get higher resolution clock behavior, the actual time
quanta will be reduced by the order of
.BR 10 .
.sp
The
.B -g
and
.B -s
options are mutually exclusive: you may not
retrieve the table at the same time you are overwriting it.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Retrieving the Current Scheduler Parameters for the
real-time class
.sp
.LP
The following command retrieves the current scheduler parameters for the
real-time class from kernel memory and writes them to the standard output.
Time quantum values are in microseconds.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dispadmin \fB-c\fR RT \fB-g\fR \fB-r\fR 1000000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Overwriting the Current Scheduler Parameters for the
Real-time Class
.sp
.LP
The following command overwrites the current scheduler parameters for the
real-time class with the values specified in
.BR rt.config .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dispadmin \fB-c\fR RT \fB-s\fR rt.config
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Retrieving the Current Scheduler Parameters for the
Time-sharing Class
.sp
.LP
The following command retrieves the current scheduler parameters for the
time-sharing class from kernel memory and writes them to the standard
output. Time quantum values are in nanoseconds.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dispadmin \fB-c\fR TS \fB-g\fR \fB-r\fR 1000000000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Overwriting the Current Scheduler Parameters for the
Time-sharing Class
.sp
.LP
The following command overwrites the current scheduler parameters for the
time-sharing class with the values specified in
.BR ts.config .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dispadmin \fB-c\fR TS \fB-s\fR ts.config
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dispadmin.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Possible location for argument to
.B -s
option.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR priocntl (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR priocntl (2),
.BR fx_dptbl (4),
.BR rt_dptbl (4),
.BR ts_dptbl (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR FSS (7)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
.B dispadmin
prints an appropriate diagnostic message if it fails to
overwrite the current scheduler parameters due to lack of required
permissions or a problem with the specified input file.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default scheduling class setting facility is managed by the service
management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/scheduler:default
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Note that
disabling the service while it is running will not change anything. The
service's status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
