'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dns-sd 1M "21 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dns-sd \- Multicast DNS (mDNS) & DNS Service Discovery (DNS-SD) Test Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-R\fR \fIname\fR \fItype\fR \fIdomain\fR \fIport\fR [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-B\fR \fItype\fR \fIdomain\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-L\fR \fIname\fR \fItype\fR \fIdomain\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-Q\fR \fIFQDN\fR \fIrrtype\fR \fIrrclass\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-C\fR \fIFQDN\fR \fIrrtype\fR \fIrrclass\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-P\fR \fIname\fR \fItype\fR \fIdomain\fR \fIport\fR \fIhost\fR \fIIP\fR [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdns-sd\fR \fB-E\fR | \fB-F\fR | \fB-A\fR | \fB-U\fR | \fB-N\fR | \fB-T\fR | \fB-M\fR | \fB-I\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dns-sd
command is a network diagnostic tool, much like
.BR ping (1M)
or \fBtraceroute\fR(1M). However, unlike those tools, most of
its functionality is not implemented in the
.B dns-sd
executable itself,
but in library code that is available to any application. The library
\fBAPI\fR that \fBdns-sd\fR uses is documented in
.BR /usr/include/dns_sd.h .
.sp
.LP
The
.B dns-sd
command is primarily intended for interactive use. Because
its command-line arguments and output format are subject to change, invoking
it from a shell script can be unpredictable. Additionally, the asynchronous
nature of
.B DNS
Service Discovery does not easily lend itself to
script-oriented programming. This style of asynchronous interaction works
best with applications that are either multi-threaded, or use a main
event-handling loop to receive keystrokes, network data, and other
asynchronous event notifications as they happen.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I "name type"
.I domain port
[\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR .\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Register (advertise) a service in the specified domain with the given
\fIname\fR and \fItype\fR as listening (on the current machine) on the
specified
.IR port .
.sp
\fIname\fR can be any arbitrary unicode text, containing any legal unicode
characters (including dots, spaces, slashes, colons, and so on without any
restrictions), up to 63
.B UTF-8
bytes long.
.sp
\fItype\fR must be of the form "_app-proto._tcp" or "_app-proto._udp",
where "app-proto" is an application protocol name registered at
http://www.dns-sd.org/ServiceTypes.html.
.sp
\fIdomain\fR is the domain in which to register the service. In current
implementations, only the local multicast domain "local" is supported. In
the future, registering will be supported in any arbitrary domain that has a
working \fBDNS\fR Update server [\fBRFC\fR 2136]. The domain "." is a
synonym for "pick a sensible default", which currently means "local".
.sp
\fIport\fR is a number from 0 to 65535, and is the \fBTCP\fR or \fBUDP\fR
port number upon which the service is listening. Registering a service on
port 0 allows an application to explicitly advertise the non-availability of
a service.
.sp
Additional attributes of the service may optionally be described by
\fIkey/value\fR pairs, which are stored in the advertised service's
\fBDNS TXT\fR record. Allowable keys and values are listed with the
service registration at http://www.dns-sd.org/ServiceTypes.html
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-B\fR \fItype domain\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Browse for instances of service
.I type
in
.IR domain .
.sp
For valid types, see http://www.dns-sd.org/ServiceTypes.html. Omitting the
domain name or using "." means "pick a sensible default."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.I "name type"
.I domain
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Look up and display the information necessary to contact and use the named
service. This information includes the hostname of the machine where that
service is available, the port number on which the service is listening, and
(if present)
.B TXT
record attributes describing properties of the
service.
.sp
In a typical application, browsing happens rarely, while lookup (or
"resolving") happens every time the service is used. For example, a user
does not browse the network to pick a default printer that often, but once a
default printer has been picked, that named service is resolved to its
current IP address and port number every time the user presses Cmd-P to
print.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.I "FQDN rrtype"
.I rrclass
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generic query for any resource record type and class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I "FQDN rrtype"
.I rrclass
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generic query for any resource record type and class. This option also
reconfirms each result from the query. Reconfirming the record instructs
.BR mdnsd (1M)
to verify the validity of the record. If the record is not
valid \fBmdnsd\fR(1M) flushes the record from the daemon's cache and also
from other
.BR mdnsd "(1M) caches on the network."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I "name type"
.I "domain port" host
\fIIP\fR [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR .\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Register (advertise) a service in the specified domain with the given
\fIname\fR and \fItype\fR listening on the specified port and accessible on
another host. This option should be used to advertise by proxy a service
accessible on another host. The host name and
.B IPv4
address to access
the service must be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Discover recommended registration domains. This option returns the
recommended domains to register a service. The recommended registration
domains are returned by querying the name servers in
.BR resolv.conf (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Discover recommended browsing domains. This option returns the recommended
domains for browsing services. The recommended browsing domains are returned
by querying the name servers in
.BR resolv.conf (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test registering service with Multicast
.B DNS
and test the add, update
and delete operations of
.B DNS
records with Multicast
.BR DNS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test registering service with Multicast
.B DNS
and test updating of
\fBDNS TXT\fR records for a service registered with Multicast
.BR DNS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -N
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test adding a large
.B NULL
record for a service registered with
Multicast
.BR DNS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test adding a large
.B TXT
record for a service registered with
Multicast
.BR DNS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test creating a registration with multiple
.B TXT
records.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Test registering and then immediately updating a
.B TXT
record.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Advertising a printing service
.sp
.LP
The following command advertises the existence of
.B LPR
printing
service on port 515 on this machine, so that it will be available to
\fBDNS-SD\fR compatible printing clients:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dns-sd -R "My Test" _printer._tcp. . 515 pdl=application/postscript
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For this registration to be useful, the LPR service should be available on
port 515. Advertising a service that does not exist is not very useful.
.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Advertising a web page
.sp
.LP
The following command advertises a web page being served by an
.BR HTTP
server on port 80 on this machine, so that it will appear on the Bonjour
list in Safari and other DNS-SD compatible Web clients:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dns-sd -R "My Test" _http._tcp . 80 path=/path-to-page.html
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Finding the advertised web pages on the local network
.sp
.LP
The following command finds the advertised web pages on the local network
(the same list that Safari shows):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dns-sd -B _http._tcp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdsdu
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mdnsd (1M),
.BR ping (1M),
.BR traceroute (1M),
\fBresolv.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
