'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH drd 1M "10 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
drd \- Logical Domain Dynamic Reconfiguration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ldoms/drd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B drd
daemon is part of the framework that enables the addition and
removal of resources from a Logical Domain. This framework is collectively
called Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR).
.sp
.LP
.B drd
is responsible for various aspects of DR on a Logical Domain and
must be enabled to ensure proper DR functionality. It is started at boot
time and has no configuration options.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWldomu
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR syslog.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B drd
uses
.BR syslog (3C)
to report status and error messages. All of
the messages are logged with the
.B LOG_DAEMON
facility. Error messages
are logged with the
.B LOG_ERR
and
.B LOG_NOTICE
priorities, and
informational messages are logged with the
.B LOG_INFO
priority. The
.RB "default entries in the " /etc/syslog.conf " file log all the " drd 
error messages to the
.B /var/adm/messages
log.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B drd
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4v/drd:default
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
