'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH etrn 1M "10 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
etrn \- start mail queue run
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBetrn\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fIserver-host\fR [\fIclient-hosts\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
SMTP's
.B ETRN
command allows an SMTP client and server to interact,
giving the server an opportunity to start the processing of its queues for
messages to go to a given host. This is meant to be used in start-up
conditions, as well as for mail nodes that have transient connections to
their service providers.
.sp
.LP
The
.B etrn
utility initiates an SMTP session with the host
\fIserver-host\fR and sends one or more \fBETRN\fR commands as follows: If
no
.I client-hosts
are specified,
.B etrn
looks up every host name for
which \fBsendmail\fR(1M) accepts email and, for each name, sends an
\fBETRN\fR command with that name as the argument. If any \fIclient-hosts\fR
are specified,
.B etrn
uses each of these as arguments for successive
\fBETRN\fR commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
System boot special case. Make sure localhost is accepting SMTP connections
before initiating the SMTP session with server-host.
.sp
This option is useful because it prevents race conditions between
.BR sendmail (1M)
accepting connections and
.I server-host
attempting to
deliver queued mail. This check is performed automatically if no
\fIclient-hosts\fR are specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The normal mode of operation for
.B etrn
is to do all of its work
silently. The
.B -v
option makes it verbose, which causes
.B etrn
to
display its conversations with the remote SMTP server.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
No environment variables are used. However, at system start-up,
\fBsvc:/network/smtp:sendmail\fR reads
.BR /etc/default/sendmail .
In this
file, if the variable
.B ETRN_HOSTS
is set,
\fBsvc:/network/smtp:sendmail\fR parses this variable and invokes \fBetrn\fR
appropriately.
.B ETRN_HOSTS
should be of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"s1:c1.1,c1.2        s2:c2.1 s3:c3.1,c3.2,c3.3"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
That is, white-space separated groups of
.I server:client
where
\fIclient\fR can be one or more comma-separated names. The \fI:client\fR
part is optional.
.I server
is the name of the server to prod; a mail
queue run is requested for each
.I client
name. This is comparable to
running:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/usr/lib/sendmail -qR \fIclient\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
on the host
.IR server .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBetrn\fR
.sp
.LP
Inserting the line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ETRN_HOSTS="s1.domain.com:clnt.domain.com s2.domain.com:clnt.domain.com"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
in \fB/etc/default/sendmail\fR results in \fBsvc:/network/smtp:sendmail\fR
invoking
.B etrn
such that
.B ETRN
commands are sent to both
\fBs1.domain.com\fR and
.BR s2.domain.com ,
with both having
\fBclnt.domain.com\fR as the \fBETRN\fR argument.

.sp
.LP
The line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ETRN_HOSTS="server.domain.com:client1.domain.com,client2.domain.com"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
results in two
.B ETRN
commands being sent to
.BR server.domain.com ,
one with the argument
.BR client1.domain.com ,
the other with the argument
.BR client2.domain.com .

.sp
.LP
The line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ETRN_HOSTS="server1.domain.com server2.domain.com"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
results in set of a
.B ETRN
commands being sent to both
\fBserver1.domain.com\fR and
.BR server2.domain.com ;
each set contains one
\fBETRN\fR command for each host name for which \fBsendmail\fR(1M) accepts
email, with that host name as the argument.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/mail/sendmail.cf\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
\fBsendmail\fR configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/default/sendmail\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Variables used by
.BR svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsndmu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sendmail (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 1985
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Not all SMTP servers support
.BR ETRN .
