'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fiocompress 1M "10 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fiocompress \- file compression utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/fiocompress\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIblock_size\fR] \fIinput_file\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/fiocompress\fR \fB-d\fR \fIinput_file\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fiocompress
utility is a file compression tool that works
together with the \fBdcfs\fR(7FS) file system to perform per-file
compression. You can use
.B fiocompress
to decompress a compressed file
or mark a compressed file as compressed, causing automatic decompression on
read. The primary use of
.B fiocompress
is to compress files in the boot
archive.
.sp
.LP
Note that this utility is not a Committed interface. See
.BR attributes (5).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I block_size
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a block size for compression. The default block size is 8192.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Compress the specified file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Decompress the specified file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark the compressed file for automatic decompression on read. Can be used
only in conjunction with
.BR -c .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The command completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The command exited due to an error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR boot (1M),
.BR bootadm (1M),
.BR dcfs (7FS),
.BR ufs (7FS),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This compression/decompression utility works only with files stored in a
UFS file system.
.sp
.LP
There is no obvious way to determine whether a given file is compressed,
other than copying the file and comparing the number of disk blocks of the
copy against the original.
