'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmdump 1M "14 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fmdump \- fault management log viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmdump\fR [\fB-efmvV\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuid\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIname\fR[.\fIname\fR]*[=\fIvalue\fR]] [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fmdump
utility can be used to display the contents of any of the
log files associated with the Solaris Fault Manager, \fBfmd\fR(1M). The Fault
Manager runs in the background on each Solaris system. It receives telemetry
information relating to problems detected by the system software, diagnoses
these problems, and initiates proactive self-healing activities such as
disabling faulty components.
.sp
.LP
The Fault Manager maintains two sets of log files for use by administrators
and service personnel:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B error log
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A log which records error telemetry, the symptoms of problems detected by
the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fault log
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A log which records fault diagnosis information, the problems believed to
explain these symptoms.
.RE

.sp
.LP
By default,
.B fmdump
displays the contents of the fault log, which
records the result of each diagnosis made by the fault manager or one of its
component modules.
.sp
.LP
An example of a default
.B fmdump
display follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fmdump
TIME                 UUID                                 SUNW-MSG-ID
Dec 28 13:01:27.3919 bf36f0ea-9e47-42b5-fc6f-c0d979c4c8f4 FMD-8000-11
Dec 28 13:01:49.3765 3a186292-3402-40ff-b5ae-810601be337d FMD-8000-11
Dec 28 13:02:59.4448 58107381-1985-48a4-b56f-91d8a617ad83 FMD-8000-OW
\&.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Each problem recorded in the fault log is identified by:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The time of its diagnosis
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A Universal Unique Identifier (UUID) that can be used to uniquely identify
this particular problem across any set of systems
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A message identifier that can be used to access a corresponding knowledge
article located at Sun's web site, http://www.sun.com/msg/
.RE
.sp
.LP
If a problem requires action by a human administrator or service technician
or affects system behavior, the Fault Manager also issues a human-readable
message to \fBsyslogd\fR(1M). This message provides a summary of the problem
and a reference to the knowledge article on the Sun web site,
http://www.sun.com/msg/.
.sp
.LP
You can use the
.B -v
and
.B -V
options to expand the display from a
single-line summary to increased levels of detail for each event recorded in
the log. The
.BR -c ,
.BR -t ,
.BR -T ,
and
.B -u
options can be used
to filter the output by selecting only those events that match the specified
.IR class ,
range of times, or
.IR uuid .
.sp
.LP
If more than one filter option is present on the command-line, the options
combine to display only those events that are selected by the logical
.B AND
of the options. If more than one instance of the same filter option
is present on the command-line, the like options combine to display any
events selected by the logical
.B OR
of the options. For example, the
command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fmdump -u uuid1 -u uuid2 -t 02Dec03
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
selects events whose attributes are
.BR "(uuid1 OR uuid2" )
.B AND
(time
on or after 02Dec03).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I class
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select events that match the specified class. The class argument can use the
glob pattern matching syntax described in
.BR sh (1).
The class represents a
hierarchical classification string indicating the type of telemetry event.
More information about Sun's telemetry protocol is available at Sun's web
site, http://www.sun.com/msg/.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display events from the fault management error log instead of the fault log.
This option is shorthand for specifying the pathname of the error log file.

.sp
The error log file contains Private telemetry information used by Sun's
automated diagnosis software. This information is recorded to facilitate
post-mortem analysis of problems and event replay, and should not be parsed
or relied upon for the development of scripts and other tools. See
.BR attributes (5)
for information about Sun's rules for Private interfaces.

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Follow the growth of the log file by waiting for additional data.
.B fmdump
enters an infinite loop where it will sleep for a second,
attempt to read and format new data from the log file, and then go back to
sleep. This loop can be terminated at any time by sending an interrupt
(\fBControl-C\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the localized diagnosis message associated with each entry in the
fault log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR \fIname\fR[.\fIname\fR]*[=\fIvalue\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select fault log or error log events, depending on the
.B -e
option, that
have properties with a matching name (and optionally a matching value). For
string properties the value can be a regular expression match. Regular
expression syntax is described in the EXTENDED REGULAR EXPRESSIONS section of
the
.BR regex (5)
manual page. Be careful when using the characters:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$  *  {  ^  |  (  )  \e
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.or a regular expression, because these are meaningful to the shell. It
is safest to enclose any of these in single quotes. For numeric properties,
the value can be octal, hex, or decimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I dir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the specified root directory for the log files accessed by
.BR fmdump ,
instead of the default root
.RB ( / ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select events that occurred at or after the specified time. The time can be
specified using any of the following forms:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR/\fIyy hh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Month, day, year, hour in 24-hour format, minute, and second. Any amount of
whitespace can separate the date and time. The argument should be quoted so
that the shell interprets the two strings as a single argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR/\fIyy hh\fR:\fImm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Month, day, year, hour in 24-hour format, and minute. Any amount of
whitespace can separate the date and time. The argument should be quoted so
that the shell interprets the two strings as a single argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR/\fIyy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
12:00:00AM on the specified month, day, and year.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIddMonyy hh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Day, month name, year, hour in 24-hour format, minute, and second. Any
amount of whitespace can separate the date and time. The argument should be
quoted so that the shell interprets the two strings as a single argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR "ddMonyy hh" :\fImm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Day, month name, year, hour in 24-hour format, and minute. Any amount of
whitespace can separate the date and time. The argument should be quoted so
that the shell interprets the two strings as a single argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIMon dd\fR \fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Month, day, hour in 24-hour format, minute, and second of the current
year.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIyyyy\fR-\fImm\fR-\fIdd\fR [T \fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Year, month, day, and optional hour in 24-hour format, minute, and second.
The second, or hour, minute, and second, can be optionally omitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ddMonyy
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
12:00:00AM on the specified day, month name, and year.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hour in 24-hour format, minute, and second of the current day.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hour in 24-hour format and minute of the current day.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fBns\fR | \fIT\fBnsec\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I T
nanoseconds ago where T is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fRus |\fIT\fRusec\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I T
microseconds ago where T is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fBms\fR | \fIT\fBmsec\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
T milliseconds ago where T is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fRs | \fIT\fRsec\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
T seconds ago where
.I T
is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fRm |\fIT\fRmin\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I T
minutes ago where
.I T
is an integer value specified in base
10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fRh |\fIT\fRhour\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I T
hours ago where
.I T
is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIT\fRd |\fIT\fRday\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I T
days ago where
.I T
is an integer value specified in base 10.
.RE

You can append a decimal fraction of the form \fB\&.\fIn\fR to any
.B -t
option argument to indicate a fractional number of seconds beyond
the specified time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.I time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select events that occurred at or before the specified time.
.I time
can
be specified using any of the time formats described for the
.BR -t
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I uuid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select fault diagnosis events that exactly match the specified
.IR uuid .
Each diagnosis is associated with a Universal Unique Identifier (UUID) for
identification purposes. The
.B -u
option can be combined with other
options such as
.B -v
to show all of the details associated with a
particular diagnosis.
.sp
If the
.B -e
option and
.B -u
option are both present, the error
events that are cross-referenced by the specified diagnosis are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display verbose event detail. The event display is enlarged to show
additional common members of the selected events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display very verbose event detail. The event display is enlarged to show
every member of the name-value pair list associated with each event. In
addition, for fault logs, the event display includes a list of
cross-references to the corresponding errors that were associated with the
diagnosis.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Specifies an alternate log file to display instead of the system fault log.
The
.B fmdump
utility determines the type of the specified log
automatically and produces appropriate output for the selected log.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Retrieving Given Class from
.B fmd
Log
.sp
.LP
Use any of the following commands to retrieve information about a specified
class from the
.B fmd
log. The complete class name is
.BR ereport.io.ddi.context .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBfmdump -Ve -c 'ereport.io.ddi.context'\fR
# \fBfmdump -Ve -c 'ereport.*.context'\fR
# \fBfmdump -Ve -n 'class=ereport.io.ddi.context'\fR
# \fBfmdump -Ve -n 'class=ereport.*.context'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Any of the preceding commands produces the following output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Oct 06 2007 11:53:20.975021712 ereport.io.ddi.context
        nvlist version: 0
                class = ereport.io.ddi.context
                ena = 0x1b03a15ecf00001
                detector = (embedded nvlist)
                nvlist version: 0
                        version = 0x0
                        scheme = dev
                        device-path = /
                (end detector)

                __ttl = 0x1
                __tod = 0x470706b0 0x3a1da690
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Retrieving Specific Detector Device Path from \fBfmd\fR
Log
.sp
.LP
The following command retrieves a detector device path from the \fBfmd\fR
log.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBfmdump -Ve -n 'detector.device-path=.*/disk@1,0$'\fR
Oct 06 2007 12:04:28.065660760 ereport.io.scsi.disk.rqs
nvlist version: 0
       class = ereport.io.scsi.disk.rqs
       ena = 0x453ff3732400401
       detector = (embedded nvlist)
                nvlist version: 0
                        version = 0x0
                        scheme = dev
                        device-path = /pci@0,0/pci1000,3060@3/disk@1,0
                (end detector)

                __ttl = 0x1
                __tod = 0x4707094c 0x3e9e758
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion. All records in the log file were examined
successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
A fatal error occurred. This prevented any log file data from being
examined, such as failure to open the specified file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command-line options were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The log file was opened successfully, but one or more log file records were
not displayed, either due to an I/O error or because the records themselves
were malformed.
.B fmdump
issues a warning message for each record that
could not be displayed, and then continues on and attempts to display other
records.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/fm/fmd
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Fault management log directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/fm/fmd/errlog
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Fault management error log
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/fm/fmd/fltlog
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Fault management fault log
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWfmd
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command-line options are Evolving. The human-readable error log output
is Private. The human-readable fault log output is Evolving.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sh (1),
.BR fmadm (1M),
.BR fmd (1M),
.BR fmstat (1M),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR libexacct (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR regex (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.sp
.LP
http://www.sun.com/msg/
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Fault logs contain references to records stored in error logs that can be
displayed using
.B "fmdump -V"
to understand the errors that were used
in the diagnosis of a particular fault. These links are preserved if an error
log is renamed as part of log rotation. They can be broken by removing an
error log file, or by moving it to another filesystem directory. \fBfmdump\fR
can not display error information for such broken links. It continues to
display any and all information present in the fault log.
