'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fruadm 1M "22 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fruadm \- prints and updates customer data associated with FRUs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4u/sbin/fruadm\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4u/sbin/fruadm\fR \fB-l\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4u/sbin/fruadm\fR [\fB-r\fR] \fIpath\fR [\fItext\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B fruadm
prints or sets the customer data for Field-Replaceable Units
(\fBFRU\fRs).
.sp
.LP
Without arguments, \fBfruadm\fR prints the paths of all \fBFRU
ID\fR-capable \fBFRU\fRs (containers) in the system, along with the contents
of the customer data record, if present, for each such
.BR FRU ;
for
\fBFRU\fRs without customer data, \fBfruadm\fR prints only the container's
path.
.sp
.LP
 Only a privileged user can create or update data in containers. The privileges required to perform these write operations are hardware dependent. Typically, a default system configuration restricts write operations to the superuser or to the platform-administrator user.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
List the system's frutree paths.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Recursively display or update the data for all containers rooted at the
argument
.IR path .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I path
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A full or partial system frutree path for or under which to print or set
the customer data. The first field of each line of output of \fBfruadm
.B -l
gives the valid full
.B frutree
paths for the system.
.sp
Paths can include shell meta-characters; such paths should be quoted
appropriately for the user's shell. For partial paths, the first matching
full path is selected for display or update. Without the
.B -r
option,
the path must be that of a container; with the
.B -r
option, all
containers (if any) under
.I path
will be selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I text
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Up to 80 characters of text set as the customer data. If the text contains
white space or shell metacharacters, it should be quoted appropriately for
the user's shell.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying All Customer Data
.sp
.LP
The following example prints all customer data available from
.BR FRU "s on"
the system. For containers with no customer data, only the containers' paths
will be listed.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% fruadm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying Customer Data For a Single FRU
.sp
.LP
The following command prints the customer data, if present, for the
specified
.BR FRU :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% fruadm /frutree/chassis/system-board
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Displaying Customer Data For a Single FRU
.sp
.LP
The following command prints the customer data, if present, for the first
.B mem-module
found:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% fruadm mem-module
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Setting Customer Data
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the customer data for a
.BR FRU :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# fruadm system-board 'Asset Tag 123456'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Setting Customer Data
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the customer data for all
.BR FRU "s under"
.BR chassis :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# fruadm -r /frutree/chassis "Property of XYZ, Inc."
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWfruip.u
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR prtfru (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
