'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fsck_pcfs 1M "28 Jan 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fsck_pcfs \- file system consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfsck\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfsck\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fsck
utility audits and interactively repairs inconsistent
conditions on file systems.
.I special
represents the character special
device on which the file system resides, for example
.BR /dev/rdiskette .
The character special device, not the block special device, should be used.

.sp
.LP
In the case of correcting serious inconsistencies, by default, \fBfsck\fR
asks for confirmation before making a repair and waits for the operator to
respond either
.B yes
or
.BR no .
If the operator does not have write
permission on the file system,
.B fsck
defaults to a
.B -n
(no
corrections) action. See \fBfsck\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Repairing some file system inconsistencies may result in loss of data. The
amount and severity of data loss may be determined from the diagnostic
output.
.sp
.LP
When executed with the verify option
.RB ( "-o v" ),
.B fsck_pcfs
automatically scans the entire file system to verify that
all of its allocation units are accessible. If it finds any units
inaccessible, it updates the file allocation table (\fBFAT\fR)
appropriately. It also updates any effected directory entries to reflect the
problem. This directory update includes truncating the file at the point in
its allocation chain where the file data is no longer accessible. Any
remaining accessible allocation units become orphaned.
.sp
.LP
Orphaned chains of accessible allocation units are, with the operator's
concurrence, linked back into the file system as files in the root
directory. These files are assigned names of the form file\fINNNN\fR.chk,
where the \fIN\fRs are digits in the integral range from
.B 0
through
.BR 9 .
.sp
.LP
After successfully scanning and correcting any errors in the file system,
.B fsck
displays a summary of information about the file system. This
summary includes the size of the file system in bytes, the number of bytes
used in directories and individual files, and the number of available
allocation units remaining in the file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I generic_options
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The following generic options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Check but do not repair. This option checks that the file system is
suitable for mounting, returning the appropriate exit status. If the file
system is ready for mounting,
.B fsck
displays a message such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pcfs fsck: sanity check:
\fB/dev/rdiskette\fR okay
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
|
.B -N
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
 Assume a no response to  all  questions asked  by
.BR fsck ;
do not open the file system for writing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Echo the expanded command line, but do not execute  the command. This
option may be used to verify and  to validate the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
|
.B -Y
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Assume a
.B yes
response to all  questions  asked  by
.BR fsck .
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I specific_options
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Specify
.B pcfs
file system specific options in a comma-separated list,
in any combination, with no intervening spaces.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B v
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Verify all allocation units are accessible prior to correcting
inconsistencies in the metadata.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Check and fix the file system non-interactively
.RB ( preen ).
Exit
immediately if there is a problem requiring intervention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Check writable file systems only.
.RE

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I special
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The device which contains the pcfs. The device name for a diskette is
specified as
.B /dev/rdiskette0
for the first diskette drive, or
.B /dev/rdiskette1
for a second diskette drive. A hard disk device or
high-capacity removable device name much be qualified with a suffix to
indicate the proper
.B FDISK
partition.
.sp
For example, in the names:
.B /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0p0:c
and
.BR /dev/rdsk/c0t4d0s2:c ,
the
.B :c
suffix indicates the first
partition on the disk contains the
.BR pcfs .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fsck (1M),
.BR fstyp (1M),
.BR fdisk (1M),
.BR mkfs (1M),
.BR mkfs_pcfs (1M),
.BR mountall (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR pcfs (7FS),
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The operating system buffers file system data. Running
.B fsck
on a
mounted file system can cause the operating system's buffers to become out
of date with respect to the disk. For this reason, the file system should be
unmounted when
.B fsck
is used. If this is not possible, care should be
taken that the system is quiescent and that it is rebooted immediately after
.B fsck
is run. Quite often, however, this is not sufficient. A panic
will probably occur if running
.B fsck
on a file system modifies the file
system.
