'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fssnap 1M "11 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fssnap \- create temporary snapshots of a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-V\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIspecial_options\fR \fI/mount/point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap \fR \fB-d\fR [\fB-F\fR \fI FSType\fR] [\fB-V\fR] \fI/mount/point\fR | \fIdev\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap\fR \fB-i\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecial_options\fR]
     [\fI/mount/point\fR | \fIdev\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fssnap
command creates a stable, read-only snapshot of a file
system when given either an active mount point or a special device
containing a mounted file system, as in the first form of the synopsis. A
snapshot is a temporary image of a file system intended for backup
operations.
.sp
.LP
While the snapshot file system is stable and consistent, an application
updating files when the snapshot is created might leave these files in an
internally inconsistent, truncated, or otherwise unusable state. In such a
case, the snapshot will contain these partially written or corrupted files.
It is a good idea to ensure active applications are suspended or
checkpointed and their associated files are also consistent during snapshot
creation.
.sp
.LP
File access times are not updated while the snapshot is being created.
.sp
.LP
A path to the virtual device that contains this snapshot is printed to
standard output when a snapshot is created.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Deletes the snapshot associated with the given file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I FSType
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Specifies the file system type to be used. The
.B FSType
should either
be specified here or be determined by matching the block special device with
an entry in the
.B /etc/vfstab
table, or by consulting
.BR /etc/default/fs .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Displays the state of any given
.B FSType
snapshot. If a mount-point or
device is not given, a list of all snapshots on the system is displayed.
When a mount-point or device is specified, detailed information is provided
for the specified file system snapshot by default. The format and meaning of
this information is file-system dependent. See the \fBFSType\fR-specific
.B fssnap
man page for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I special_options
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
See the \fBFSType\fR-specific man page for \fBfssnap\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Echoes the complete command line, but does not execute the command.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I /mount/point
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The directory where the file system resides.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBFSType\fR-specific man pages for examples.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/vfstab
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Specifies file system type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/default/fs
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Specifies the default local file system type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fssnap_ufs (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This command might not be supported for all
.BR FSTypes .
