'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fssnap_ufs 1M "29 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fssnap_ufs \- create a temporary snapshot of a UFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap\fR [\fB-F\fR ufs] [\fB-V\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIbacking-store\fR=\fIpath\fR,
     [\fIspecific-options\fR] \fI/mount/point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap\fR \fB-d\fR [\fB-F\fR ufs] [\fB-V\fR] \fI/mount/point\fR | \fIdev\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfssnap\fR \fB-i\fR [\fB-F\fR ufs] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific-options\fR] \fI/mount/point\fR | \fIdev\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fssnap
command queries, creates, or deletes a temporary snapshot of a
.B UFS
file system. A snapshot is a point-in-time image of a file system that
provides a stable and unchanging device interface for backups.
.sp
.LP
When creating a file system snapshot, you must specify the file system to be
captured and the backing-store file. The backing-store file(s) are where the
snapshot subsystem saves old file system data before it is overwritten. Beyond
the first backing-store file,
.B fssnap
automatically creates additional
backing-store files on an as-needed basis.
.sp
.LP
The number and size of the backing store files varies with the amount of
activity in the file system. The destination path must have enough free space
to
hold the backing-store file(s). This location must be different from the file
system that is being captured in a snapshot. The backing-store file(s) can reside
on any type of file system, including another
.B UFS
file system or an
\fBNFS\fR-mounted file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the snapshot associated with the given file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the state of one or all
.B UFS
snapshots. If a mount-point or device
is not specified, a list of all snapshots on the system is displayed. When a
mount-point or device is specified, detailed information is provided for the
specified file system snapshot by default.
.sp
Use the
.B -o
options with the
.B -i
option to specify what snapshot
information is displayed. Since this feature is provided primarily for use in
scripts and on the command line, no labels are displayed for the data. Sizes
are
all in bytes, and the output is not internationalized or localized. The
information is displayed on one line per option. Unrecognized options display a
single
.B ?
on the line. One line per option guarantees that there are the
same number of lines as options specified and there is a one-to-one
correspondence between an output line and an option.
.sp
The following
.B -o
options display specific information for a given
snapshot. See the EXAMPLES section for examples of how to use these options.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B snapnumber
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the snapshot number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B blockdevname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the block device path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rawdevname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the raw device path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mountpoint
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the mount point of the master file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B state
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the state of the snapshot device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B backing-store
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the location of the first backing-store file for this snapshot. If
there
are multiple backing-store files, subsequent files have the same name as the
first file, with the suffixes \fB\&.2\fR, \fB\&.3\fR, and so forth.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B backing-store-len
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the sum of the sizes of the backing-store files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B maxsize
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the
.B maxsize
value specified for the backing-store file(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B createtime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the time that the snapshot was created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B chunksize
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the copy-on-write granularity.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I specific-options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Without
.B -d
or
.BR -i ,
the default action is to create a snapshot.
Specify the following options when creating a snapshot. All of these options
are
discretionary, except for the backing-store file, which is required.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI backing-store= path
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses
.I path
in the creation of the backing-store file(s).
.I path
must
not reside on the file system that is being captured in a snapshot and must not
be the name of an existing file. If
.I path
is a directory, then a
backing-store file is created within it using a name that is generated
automatically. If
.I path
is not a directory and does not already exist, then
a backing-store file with that name is created. If more than one backing-store
file is required,
.B fssnap
creates subsequent files automatically. The second
and subsequent files have the same name as the first file, with suffixes of
\fB\&.2\fR, \fB\&.3\fR, and so forth.
.sp
This option can be abbreviated as \fBbf=\fIpath\fR or \fBbs=\fIpath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unlink
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unlinks the backing-store file after the snapshot is created. This option
specifies that the backing-store file does not need to be removed manually when
the snapshot is deleted. This might make administration more difficult since
the
file is not visible in the file system. If this option is not specified, the
backing-store files should be removed manually after the snapshot is deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI chunksize= n
[\fBk\fR,\fBm\fR,\fBg\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses
.I n
for the chunk size. Chunk size is the granularity of the data that
is sent to the backing store.
.sp
Specify
.B chunksize
in the following units:
.B k
for kilobytes,
.B m
for megabytes, or
.B g
for gigabytes. By default, chunk size is four times the
block size of the file system (typically
.BR 32k ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmaxsize=\fIn\fR[\fBk\fR,\fBm\fR,\fBg\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not allow the sum of the sizes of the backing-store file(s) to exceed
.IR n ,
where
.I n
is the unit specified.  The snapshot is deleted
automatically when the sum of the sizes of the backing-store file(s) exceeds
.BR maxsize .
.sp
Specify
.B maxsize
in the following units:
.B k
for kilobytes,
.B m
for
megabytes, or
.B g
for gigabytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B raw
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays to standard output the name of the raw device instead of the block
device when a snapshot is created. The block device is printed by default (when
.B raw
is not specified). This option makes it easier to embed
.B fssnap
commands in the command line for commands that require the raw device instead.
Both devices are always created. This option affects only the output.
.RE

.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mount-point
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The directory where the file system resides.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I special
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The physical device for the file system, such as
.BR /dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7 .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a Snapshot of a File System
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a snapshot of a file system. The block special
device created for the snapshot is
.BR /dev/fssnap/0 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fssnap -F ufs -o backing-store=/var/tmp /export/home
/dev/fssnap/0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Backing Up a File System Snapshot Without Having To Unmount the
File System
.sp
.LP
The following example backs up a file system snapshot without having to unmount
the file system. Since
.B ufsdump
requires the path to a raw device, the
.B raw
option is used. The
.B /export/home
file system snapshot is removed
in the second command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ufsdump 0uf /dev/rmt/0 `fssnap -F ufs
      -o raw,bs=/export/snap /export/home`
\fI<output from ufsdump>\fR
# fssnap -F ufs -d /export/home
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Backing Up a File System
.sp
.LP
When backing up a file system, do not let the backing-store file(s) exceed
.BR "400 Mbytes" .
The second command removes the
.B /export/home
file
system snapshot.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ufsdump 0uf /dev/rmt/0 `fssnap -F ufs
      -o maxsize=400m,backing-store=/export/snap,raw
      /export/home`
# fssnap -F ufs -d /export/home
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Performing an Incremental Dump of a Snapshot
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ufsdump
to back up a snapshot of
.BR /var .
Note the use of the
.B N
option to
.BR ufsdump ,
which writes the name of the
device being dumped, rather than the name of the snapshot device, to
.B /etc/dumpdates
file. See
.BR ufsdump (1M)
for details on the \fBN\fR
flag.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ufsdump lfNu /dev/rmt/0 /dev/rdsk/c0t3d0s2 `fssnap -F ufs
-o raw,bs=/export/scratch,unlink /var`
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Finding Out What Snapshots Currently Exist
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the currently existing snapshots.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fssnap -i
0  /src
1  /export/home
\fI<output continues>\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Mounting a File System Snapshot
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a file system snapshot. After you create a file
system snapshot, mount it on
.B /tmp/mount
for temporary read-only access.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fssnap -F ufs -o backing-store=/nfs/server/scratch /export/home
/dev/fssnap/1
# mkdir /tmp/mount
# mount -F ufs -o ro /dev/fssnap/1 /tmp/mount
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Creating a File System Snapshot and Unlinking the Backing-store
File
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a file system snapshot and unlinks the
backing-store file. After creating a file system snapshot and unlinking the
backing-store file, check the state of the snapshot.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fssnap -o bs=/scratch,unlink /src
/dev/fssnap/0
# fssnap -i /src
Snapshot number               : 0
Block Device                  : /dev/fssnap/0
Raw Device                    : /dev/rfssnap/0
Mount point                   : /src
Device state                  : active
Backing store path            : /scratch/snapshot2 <UNLINKED>
Backing store size            : 192 KB
Maximum backing store size    : Unlimited
Snapshot create time          : Sat May 06 10:55:11 2000
Copy-on-write granularity     : 32 KB
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 8
Displaying the Size and Location of the Backing-store File(s)
and the Creation Time for the Snapshot
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the size of the backing-store file(s) in bytes,
the location of the backing store, and the creation time for the snapshot of
the
.B /test
file system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# fssnap -i -o backing-store-len,backing-store,createtime /test
196608
/snapshot2
Sat May 6 10:55:11 2000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that if there are multiple backing-store files stored in
.BR /snapshot2 ,
.RI "they will have names of the form " file " (for the first file), " file .1,
.IR file .2,
and so forth.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.sp
.LP
The script-readable output mode is a stable interface that can be added to, but
will not change. All other interfaces are subject to change.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlock (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
See the
.B ntpd
man page, delivered in the
.B SUNWntpu
package (not a
SunOS man page).
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B fssnap
device files should be treated like a regular disk block or
character device.
.sp
.LP
The association between a file system and the snapshot is lost when the
snapshot
is deleted or the system reboots. Snapshot persistence across reboots is not
currently supported.
.sp
.LP
To avoid unnecessary performance impacts, perform the snapshot and system
backup
when the system is least active.
.sp
.LP
It is not possible to perform a snapshot of a file system if any of the
following conditions are true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The file system is in use by system accounting
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The file system contains a local swap file
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The file system is used as backing store by an application that uses
.BR mlock (3C)
to lock its pages. Typically, these are real time applications,
such as
.B ntpd
(delivered in the
.B SUNWntpu
package).
.RE
.sp
.LP
These conditions result in
.B fssnap
being unable to write lock the file
system prior to performing the snapshot.
