'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fstyp 1M "19 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fstyp \- determine file system type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfstyp\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-v\fR] \fIspecial\fR [:\fIlogical-drive\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBfstyp\fR allows the user to determine the file system type of unmounted
file systems using heuristic programs.
.sp
.LP
An \fBfstyp\fR module for each file system type to be checked is executed;
each of these modules applies an appropriate heuristic to determine whether
the supplied
.I special
file is of the type for which it checks. If it
is, the program prints on standard output the usual file system identifier
for that type (for example, ``ufs'') and exits with a return code of
.BR 0 ;
if none of the modules succeed, the error message \fBunknown_fstyp
(no matches)\fR is returned and the exit status is
.BR 1 .
If more than one
module succeeds, the error message \fBunknown_fstyp (multiple matches)\fR is
returned and the exit status is
.BR 2 .
Other errors are printed in the
same format.
.sp
.LP
This command is unreliable and its results should not be used to make any
decisions about subsequent use of a storage device or disk partition.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Output all available file system attributes. If a file system has been
successfully identified, and this option is specified, the \fIFSType\fR
identifier is followed by one or more "name-value" pairs, one per line, in
the format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
name: value
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following conventions are recognized for the file system attributes:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
String values are put in single quotes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Nested "name-value" list increases the indentation of its values by four
whitespaces.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For an array of "name-value" pairs, one array entry is printed per line,
with the index following the name in square brackets.
.RE
For instance, in the following example, "\fItop_list\fR" is a "name-value"
list, consisting of a string array "\fIstring_array\fR" and a "name-value"
list array "\fIlist_array\fR". The second "list_array"element is an integer
array "\fIint_array\fR" containing three elements.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
top_string: 'String'
top_list:
    string_array[0]: 'S0'
    string_array[1]: 'S1'
    list_array[0]:
        int_one: 1
        string_two: 'S2'
    list_array[1]:
        int_array[0]: 1
        int_array[1]: 2
        int_array[2]: 3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In addition to the \fIFSType\fR-specific attributes, the following generic
attributes may be present:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gen_clean
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Allowable values are "true" or "false". If the value is "false", the file
system is damaged or was not unmounted cleanly and the \fBfsck\fR(1M)
command must be run before this file system can be mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gen_guid
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Globally unique identifier. This string uniquely identifies the file
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gen_version
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A string describing the file system version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gen_volume_label
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Volume label, a human-readable string used to either describe or identify
the file system.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produce verbose output. This is usually information about the file systems
superblock and varies across different
.IR FSTypes .
See
.BR ufs (7FS),
\fBmkfs_ufs\fR(1M), and \fBtunefs\fR(1M) for details.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBfstyp\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfsck\fR(1M), \fBmkfs_ufs\fR(1M), \fBtunefs\fR(1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR libfstyp (3LIB),
.BR largefile (5),
\fBhsfs\fR(7FS), \fBufs\fR(7FS),
.BR pcfs (7FS)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The use of heuristics implies that the result of\fBfstyp\fR is not
guaranteed to be accurate.
.sp
.LP
This command is unreliable and its results should not be used to make any
decisions about subsequent use of a storage device or disk partition.
