'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getent 1M "26 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
getent \- get entries from administrative database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgetent\fR \fIdatabase\fR [\fIkey\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B getent
gets a list of entries from the administrative database
specified by
.IR database .
The information generally comes from one or
more of the sources that are specified for the
.I database
in
.BR /etc/nsswitch.conf .
.sp
.LP
.I database
is the name of the database to be examined. This can be
.BR passwd ,
.BR group ,
.BR hosts ,
.BR ipnodes ,
.BR services ,
.BR protocols ,
.BR ethers ,
.BR project ,
.BR networks ,
or
.BR netmasks .
For each of these databases,
.B getent
uses the
appropriate library routines described in
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getgrnam (3C),
.BR gethostbyaddr (3NSL),
.BR gethostbyname (3NSL),
.BR getipnodebyaddr (3SOCKET),
.BR getipnodebyname (3SOCKET),
.BR getservbyname (3SOCKET),
.BR getprotobyname (3SOCKET),
.BR ethers (3SOCKET),
.BR getprojbyname (3PROJECT)
and
.BR getnetbyname (3SOCKET),
respectively.
.sp
.LP
Each
.I key
must be in a format appropriate for searching on the
respective database. For example, it can be a
.I username
or
.I numeric-uid
for
.BR passwd ;
.I hostname
or
.IR "IP address"
for
.BR hosts ;
or
.IR service ,
.IR service/protocol ,
.IR port ,
or
.I port/proto
for
.BR services .
.sp
.LP
.B getent
prints out the database entries that match each of the
supplied keys, one per line, in the format of the matching administrative
file:
.BR passwd (4),
.BR group (4),
.BR project (4),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR services (4),
.BR protocols (4),
.BR ethers (3SOCKET),
.BR networks (4),
or
.BR netmasks (4).
If no key is given, all entries
returned by the corresponding enumeration library routine, for example,
.B getpwent()
or
.BR gethostent() ,
are printed. Enumeration is not
supported on
.BR ipnodes .
.SS "Key Interpretation for \fBpasswd\fR and \fBgroup\fR Databases"
.sp
.LP
When
.B getent
is invoked with database set to
.BR passwd ,
each key
value is processed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the key value consists only of numeric characters,
.B getent
assumes
that the key value is a numeric user ID and searches the user database for a
matching user ID.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the user ID is not found in the user database or if the key value
contains any non-numeric characters,
.B getent
assumes the key value is a
user name and searches the user database for a matching user name.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Similarly, when
.B getent
is invoked with database set to
.BR group ,
each key value is processed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the key value consists only of numeric characters,
.B getent
assumes
that the key value is a numeric group ID and searches the group database for
a matching group ID.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the group ID is not found in the
.B group
database or if the key
value contains any non-numeric characters,
.B getent
assumes the key
value is a group name and searches the
.B group
database for a matching
group name.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Command syntax was incorrect, an invalid option was used, or an internal
error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
At least one of the specified entry names was not found in the database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
There is no support for enumeration on this database.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
name service switch configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
group file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/inet/hosts
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
IPv4 and IPv6 host name database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/services
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Internet services and aliases
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/project
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
project file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/protocols
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
protocol name database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ethers
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Ethernet address to hostname database or domain
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/networks
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
network name database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/netmasks
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
network mask database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ethers (3SOCKET),
.BR getgrnam (3C),
.BR gethostbyaddr (3NSL),
.BR gethostbyname (3NSL),
.BR gethostent (3NSL),
.BR getipnodebyaddr (3SOCKET),
.BR getipnodebyname (3SOCKET),
.BR getnetbyname (3SOCKET),
.BR getprojbyname (3PROJECT),
.BR getprotobyname (3SOCKET),
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getservbyname (3SOCKET),
.BR group (4),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR netmasks (4),
.BR networks (4),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR project (4),
.BR protocols (4),
.BR services (4),
.BR attributes (5)
