'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hal-get-property 1M "18 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
hal-get-property, hal-set-property \- get and set HAL device properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBhal-get-property\fR \fB--udi\fR \fIudi\fR \fB--key\fR \fIkey\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
 [\fB--version\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhal-set-property\fR  \fB--udi\fR \fIudi\fR \fB--key\fR \fIkey\fR {\fB--int\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--uint64\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--string\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--bool\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--strlist-pre\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--strlist-post\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--strlist-rem\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--double\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--remove\fR \fIvalue\fR} [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--version\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) provides a view of the various
hardware attached to a system. This view is updated dynamically as hardware
configuration changes by means of hotplug or other mechanisms. HAL
represents a piece of hardware as a device object. A device object is
identified by a unique identifer and carries a set of key/value pairs,
referred to as device properties. Some properties are derived from the
actual hardware, some are merged from device information files (\fB\&.fdi\fR
files), and some are related to the actual device configuration.
.sp
.LP
The
.B hal-get-property
and
.B hal-set-property
commands allow you to
get and set properties of hardware that conforms to HAL specifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --udi
.I udi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unique device ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --key
.I key
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Key of the property to set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --int
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to an integer. Accepts decimal or hexadecimal value prefixed with
.B 0x
or
.BR x .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --uint64
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to an integer. Accepts decimal or hexadecimal value prefixed with
.B 0x
or
.BR x .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --string
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --double
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a floating point number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --boolean
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a boolean, that is, true or false
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --strlist-pre
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prepend a string to a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --strlist-post
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a string to a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --strlist-rem
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove a string from a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --remove
.I value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the property should be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display version and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display list of options and exit
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWhalr
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR hald (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR hal (5)
