'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hal-device 1M "25 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
hal-device \- manage HAL devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBhal-device\fR  [\fB-h\fR] [\fB--a\fR \fIudi\fR |  \fB--r\fR \fIudi\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) provides a view of the various
hardware attached to a system. The
.B hal-device
command enables you to
manage devices that conform to the HAL standard. Specifically,
.B hal-device
lets you add or remove a device to or from the HAL global
device list. Device properties are read from stdin in
.B lshal(1M)
syntax.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -a ,
.B --add
.I udi
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Add device specified by Universal Device Identifier
.I udi
to HAL's
global device list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Display usage information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -r ,
.B --remove
.I udi
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Remove device specified by Universal Device Identifier
.I udi
from HAL's
global device list.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWhalr
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR hald (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR hal (5)
