'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hostconfig 1M "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
hostconfig \- configure a system's host parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/hostconfig\fR \fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR [\fB-d\fR] [ \fB-h\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B hostconfig
program uses a network protocol to acquire a machine's
.B host parameters
and set these parameters on the system.
.sp
.LP
The program selects which protocol to use based on the argument to the
required
.B -p
flag. Different protocols may set different host
parameters. Currently, only one protocol (\fBbootparams\fR) is defined.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Enable
.B debug
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI hostname\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Run the protocol as if this machine were named
.BR hostname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Echo the received
.B hostname
to
.BR stdout ,
rather than setting
.B hostname
using the system name directly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fI interface\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Use only the named network interface to run the protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Run the network protocol, but do not set the acquired parameters into the
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I protocol
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Run
.B hostconfig
using
.IR protocol .
Currently, only one protocol
(\fBbootparams\fR) is available. This option is required.
.sp
Specifying the
.B "-p bootparams"
option uses the
.B whoami
call
of the RPC
.B bootparams
protocol. This sets the system's
.BR hostname ,
.BR domainname ,
and default IP router parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Enable verbose output.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Configuring Host Parameters with Verbose Output
.sp
.LP
The following command configures a machine's host parameters using the
.B whoami
call of the RPC
.B bootparams
protocol with a verbose
output.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-v\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying Host Parameters
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the parameters that would be set using the
.B whoami
call of the RPC
.B bootparams
protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-n\fR \fB-v\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Configuring Host Parameters Less the System Name
.sp
.LP
The following command configures a machine's host parameters, less the
system name, using the
.B whoami
call of the RPC
.BR bootparams
protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig='hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-h\fR'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR hostname (1),
.BR domainname (1M),
.BR route (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
