'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH if_mpadm 1M "5 Jan 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
if_mpadm \- administer interfaces in an IP multipathing group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBif_mpadm\fR \fB-d\fR | \fB-r\fR \fIifname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B if_mpadm
utility administers IP interfaces that are part of an IP
Multipathing (IPMP) group. Currently, administration is limited to offlining
IP interfaces and undoing previous offline operations.
.sp
.LP
When an IP interface is taken offline, all IP data traffic that was flowing
over the IP interface is moved to another IP interface in the IPMP group. In
addition, all
.B UP
IP addresses hosted on the IP interface are brought
down, causing
.BR in.mpathd (1M)
to stop probe-based failure detection on
the IP interface. As a result, an offline IP interface will not be used for
any inbound or outbound IP traffic. Only IP interfaces that are in an IPMP
group may be brought offline. If the IP interface is the last functioning
interface in the IPMP group, the offline operation will fail.
.sp
.LP
When an offline operation is undone, any IP addresses hosted on that IP
interface are brought
.B UP
and will be considered by
.B in.mpathd
for
probe-based failure detection. In addition, provided the IP interface is
otherwise active (see
.BR in.mpathd (1M)),
it will again be used to send
and receive IP data traffic for the IPMP group. Note that not all offline
operations can be undone. For instance,
.B in.mpathd
may have offlined an
IP interface because its hardware address was not unique within its IPMP
group. The
.B ipmpstat
utility can be used to determine why an IP
interface is offline, identify which IP interfaces in a group are being used
for inbound and outbound IP traffic, and more; see
.BR ipmpstat (1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B if_mpadm
utility supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I ifname
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Offline the IP interface specified by
.IR ifname .
If
.I ifname
is not
in an IPMP group, or the offline would cause the IPMP group to lose network
connectivity, the operation will fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I ifname
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Undo a previous offline of the IP interface specified by
.IR ifname .
If
.I ifname
is not offline, the operation will fail.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Offlining an IP Interface
.sp
.LP
The following command offlines the IP interface
.BR under0 ,
causing any
IP packets that were being sent and received through it to be handled by
another IP interface in its group.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBif_mpadm -d under0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Undoing a Previous Offline Operation
.sp
.LP
Use the following command to undo the operation in the previous example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBif_mpdadm -r under0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ifconfig (1M),
.BR in.mpathd (1M),
.BR ipmpstat (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
cannot offline: no other functioning interfaces are in its IPMP group.
.RS +4
.B Description:
.sp
.LP
This message means that offlining the IP interface would leave the IPMP
group without network connectivity.
.RE

.sp
.LP
cannot offline: not a physical interface or not in an IPMP group
.RS +4
.B Description:
.sp
.LP
This means that the IP interface is not an underlying interface in an IPMP
group, and therefore is not eligible to be offlined.
.RE

