'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iicpbmp 1M "2 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
iicpbmp \- copy Availability Suite Point-In-Time bitmap volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBiicpbmp\fR [\fB-c\fR] \fIold_bitmap\fR \fInew_bitmap\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iicpbmp
command copies an Availability Suite Point-in-Time bitmap
volume, rewriting the bitmap header so that it is consistent with the new
bitmap volume name. The configuration entry for the shadow set is rewritten
to reflect the location of the new bitmap.
.sp
.LP
No checks on the current use of either the old or new bitmap volumes are
made. The
.B iicpbmp
command should only be run when the Point-In-Time
Copy shadow set using the old bitmap is suspended.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not attempt to update the Availability Suite configuration for the
Point-in-Time shadow set that uses the bitmap. This option produces a
duplicate of the bitmap but does not affect the shadow set using the old
bitmap volume.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I old_bitmap new_bitmap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The old and new Point-In-Time bitmap volumes.
.RE

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The
.B iicpbmp
should be run only when a system is in single-user mode.
.B iicpbmp
makes no attempt to check if an Point-In-Time Copy set is in
use at the time the copy is made. Running
.B iicpbmp
without the
.BR -c
flag while Point-In-Time Copy is using the shadow set results in
inconsistencies in the shadow set the next time Point-In-Time Copy is
started.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWiir, SUNWiiu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iiadm (1M),
.BR iicpshd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
