'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.chargend 1M "23 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.chargend \- UDP or TCP character generator service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.chargend\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/chargen:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to
identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and
.BR smf (5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.chargend
service provides the server-side of the
character-generator protocol. This protocol is used for debugging and
bandwidth measurement and is available on both TCP and UDP transports,
through port 19.
.sp
.LP
The in.chargend service is an
.BR inetd (1M)
.BR smf (5)
delegated
service. The
.B in.chargend
detects which transport is requested by
examining the socket it is passed by the
.B inetd
daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TCP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Once a connection is established, the
.B in.chargend
generates a stream
of data. Any data received is discarded. The server generates data until the
client program terminates the connection. Note that the data flow is limited
by TCP flow control mechanisms.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UDP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B in.chargend
listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is
received, the server generates a UDP datagram in response containing a
random number of ASCII characters (ranging from 0 to 512 characters). Any
received data is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B in.chargend
data consists of a pattern of 72 character lines
containing the printable, 7-bit ASCII characters. Each line is terminated
with a carriage return and a line feed character.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcnsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 864
