'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.discardd 1M "23 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.discardd \- UDP or TCP discard protocol service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.discardd\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/discard:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to
identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and
.BR smf (5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.discardd
service provides the server-side of the discard
protocol. This protocol is used for debugging and bandwidth measurement and
is available on both TCP and UDP transports through port 9.
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.discardd
service is an
.BR inetd (1M)
.BR smf (5)
delegated
service. The
.B in.discardd
detects which transport is requested by
examining the socket it is passed by the
.B inetd
daemon.
.sp
.LP
The discard service simply throws away any data it receives from the
client.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TCP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Once a connection is established, the
.B in.discardd
discards any data
received. No response is generated. The connection remains open until the
client terminates it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UDP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B in.discardd
listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is
received, the server discards it. No response is sent.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcnsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 863
