'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.rlogind 1M "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.rlogind, rlogind \- remote login server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/in.rlogind\fR [\fB-k5eExXciPp\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItos\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIkeytab\fR]
     [\fB-M\fR \fIrealm\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B in.rlogind
is the server for the
.BR rlogin (1)
program.  The server
provides a remote login facility with authentication based on Kerberos V5 or
privileged port numbers.
.sp
.LP
.B in.rlogind
is invoked by
.BR inetd "(1M) when a remote login"
connection is established. When Kerberos V5 authentication is required (see
option
.B -k
below), the authentication sequence is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Check Kerberos V5 authentication.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Check authorization according to the rules in
.BR krb5_auth_rules (5).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Prompt for a password if any checks fail and
.B /etc/pam.conf
is
configured to do so.
.RE
.sp
.LP
In order for Kerberos authentication to work, a \fBhost/\fI<FQDN>\fR
Kerberos principal must exist for each Fully Qualified Domain Name
associated with the
.B in.rlogind
server. Each of these
\fBhost/\fI<FQDN>\fR principals must have a \fBkeytab\fR entry in the
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
file on the
.B in.rlogind
server. An example
principal might be:
.sp
.LP
.B host/bigmachine.eng.example.com
.sp
.LP
See \fBkadmin\fR(1M) or \fBgkadmin\fR(1M) for instructions on adding a
principal to a
.B krb5.keytab
file. See\fR for a discussion of
Kerberos authentication.
.sp
.LP
If Kerberos V5 authentication is not enabled, then the authentication
procedure follows the standard
.B rlogin
protocol:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The server checks the client's source port. If the port is not in the range
512-1023, the server aborts the connection.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The server checks the client's source address. If an entry for the client
exists in both
.B /etc/hosts
and
.BR /etc/hosts.equiv ,
a user logging
in from the client is not prompted for a password. If the address is
associated with a host for which no corresponding entry exists in
.BR /etc/hosts ,
the user is prompted for a password, regardless of
whether or not an entry for the client is present in
.BR /etc/hosts.equiv .
See
.BR hosts (4)
and
.BR hosts.equiv (4).
.RE
.sp
.LP
.RB "Once the source port and address have been checked," " in.rlogind"
allocates a pseudo-terminal and manipulates file descriptors so that the
slave half of the pseudo-terminal becomes the
.BR stdin ,
.BR stdout ,
and
.B stderr
for a login process. The login process is an instance of the
.BR login (1)
program, invoked with the
.BR -r .
.sp
.LP
The login process then proceeds with the
.BR pam "(3PAM) authentication"
process. See
.B SECURITY
below.  If automatic authentication fails, it
reprompts the user to login.
.sp
.LP
The parent of the login process manipulates the master side of the
pseudo-terminal, operating as an intermediary between the login process and
the client instance of the
.B rlogin
program.  In normal operation, a
packet protocol is invoked to provide Ctrl-S and Ctrl-Q type facilities and
propagate interrupt signals to the remote programs. The login process
propagates the client terminal's baud rate and terminal type, as found in
the environment variable,
.BR TERM .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -5
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Same as
.BR -k ,
for backwards compatibility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Requires Kerberos V5 clients to present a cryptographic checksum of initial
connection information like the name of the user that the client is trying
to access in the initial authenticator. This checksum provides additionl
security by preventing an attacker from changing the initial connection
information. This option is mutually exclusive with the
.B -i
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Creates an encrypted session.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Same as
.BR -e ,
for backwards compatibility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Ignores authenticator checksums if provided. This option ignores
authenticator checksums presented by current Kerberos clients to protect
initial connection information. Option
.B -i
is the opposite of option
.BR -c .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Allows Kerberos V5 authentication with the \fB\&.k5login\fR access control
file to be trusted. If this authentication system is used by the client and
the authorization check is passed, then the user is allowed to log in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.I realm
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Uses the indicated Kerberos V5 realm. By default, the daemon will determine
its realm from the settings in the
.BR krb5.conf (4)
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prompts for authentication only if other authentication checks fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prompts for a password in addition to other authentication methods.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I tos
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sets the
.B "IP TOS"
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I keytab
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sets the
.B KRB5
keytab file to use. The\fB/etc/krb5/krb5.keytab\fR file
is used by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Same as
.BR -e ,
for backwards compatibility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -X
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Same as
.BR -e ,
for backwards compatibility.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
.B rlogind
and
.B in.rlogind
are IPv6-enabled. See
.BR ip6 (7P).
.B IPv6
is not currently supported with Kerberos V5 authentication.
.sp
.LP
Typically, Kerberized
.B rlogin
service runs on port 543 (klogin) and
Kerberized, encrypted
.B rlogin
service runs on port 2105 (eklogin). The
corresponding FMRI entries are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/login:klogin (rlogin with kerberos)
svc:/network/login:eklogin (rlogin with kerberos and encryption)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
.B in.rlogind
uses \fBpam\fR(3PAM) for authentication, account
management, and session management. The
.B PAM
configuration policy,
listed through
.BR /etc/pam.conf ,
specifies the modules to be used for
.BR in.rlogind .
Here is a partial
.B pam.conf
file with entries for the
\fBrlogin\fR command using the "rhosts" and UNIX authentication modules, and
the UNIX account, session management, and password management modules.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(4.13i)
lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(4.13i)
.
rloginauth sufficientpam_rhosts_auth.so.1
rloginauth requisitepam_authtok_get.so.1
rloginauth requiredpam_dhkeys.so.1
rloginauth requiredpam_unix_auth.so.1

rloginaccount requiredpam_unix_roles.so.1
rloginaccount requiredpam_unix_projects.so.1
rloginaccount requiredpam_unix_account.so.1

rloginsession requiredpam_unix_session.so.1
.TE

.sp
.LP
With this configuration, the server checks the client's source address. If
an entry for the client exists in both
.B /etc/hosts
and
.BR /etc/hosts.equiv ,
a user logging in from the client is not prompted
for a password. If the address is associated with a host for which no
corresponding entry exists in
.BR /etc/hosts ,
the user is prompted for a
password, regardless of whether or not an entry for the client is present in
.BR /etc/hosts.equiv .
See
.BR hosts (4)
and
.BR hosts.equiv (4).
.sp
.LP
When running a Kerberized rlogin service (with or without the encryption
option), the pam service name that should be used is "\fBkrlogin\fR".
.sp
.LP
If there are no entries for the
.B rlogin
service, then the entries for
the "other" service will be used. If multiple authentication modules are
listed, then the user may be prompted for multiple passwords. Removing the
.B pam_rhosts_auth.so.1
entry will disable the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B ~/.rhosts
authentication protocol and the user would always be forced
to type the password. The
.I sufficient
flag indicates that
authentication through the
.B pam_rhosts_auth.so.1
module is sufficient
to authenticate the user. Only if this authentication fails is the next
authentication module used.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmds
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR gkadmin (1M),
.BR in.rshd (1M),
.BR inetadm (1M),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR kadmin (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR hosts.equiv (4),
.BR krb5.conf (4),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR krb5_auth_rules (5),
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_session (5),
.BR smf (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
All diagnostic messages are returned on the connection associated with the
.BR stderr ,
after which any network connections are closed. An error is
indicated by a leading byte with a value of 1.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Hostname for your address unknown.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No entry in the host name database existed for the client's machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Try again.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A
.I fork
by the server failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/bin/sh:
\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The user's login shell could not be started.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The authentication procedure used here assumes the integrity of each client
machine and the connecting medium.  This is insecure, but it is useful in an
``open'' environment.
.sp
.LP
A facility to allow all data exchanges to be encrypted should be present.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR pam_unix (5)
module is no longer supported. Similar functionality
is provided by
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
and
.BR pam_unix_session (5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.rlogind
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/login:rlogin (rlogin)
svc:/network/login:klogin (rlogin with kerberos)
svc:/network/login:eklogin (rlogin with kerberos and encryption)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Responsibility
for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to
.BR inetd (1M).
Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view
configuration information for this service. The service's status can be
queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
