'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.routed 1M "24 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.routed, routed \- network routing daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/in.routed\fR [\fB-AdghmnqsStVz\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItracefile\fR [\fB-v\fR]]
 [\fB-F\fR \fInet\fR[/mask ][,metric]] [\fB-P\fR \fIparams\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The daemon
.BR in.routed ,
often referred to as
.BR routed ,
is invoked at
boot time to manage the network routing tables. It uses Routing Information
Protocol, RIPv1 (RFC 1058), RIPv2 (RFC 2453), and Internet Router Discovery
Protocol (RFC 1256) to maintain the kernel routing table. The RIPv1 protocol
is based on the reference 4.3BSD daemon.
.sp
.LP
.B in.routed
is managed by means of the service management facility (SMF),
using the fault management resource identifier (FMRI):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/routing/route:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The daemon listens on a
.B udp
socket for the
.B route
service (see
.BR services (4))
for Routing Information Protocol packets. It also sends and
receives multicast Router Discovery ICMP messages. If the host is a router,
.B in.routed
periodically supplies copies of its routing tables to any
directly connected hosts and networks. It also advertises or solicits default
routes using Router Discovery ICMP messages.
.sp
.LP
When started (or when a network interface is later turned on),
.B in.routed
uses an
.B AF_ROUTE
address family facility to find those
directly connected interfaces configured into the system and marked "up". It
adds necessary routes for the interfaces to the kernel routing table. Soon
after being first started, and provided there is at least one interface on
which RIP has not been disabled,
.B in.routed
deletes all pre-existing
non-static routes in the kernel table. Static routes in the kernel table are
preserved and included in RIP responses if they have a valid RIP metric (see
.BR route (1M)).
.sp
.LP
If more than one interface is present (not counting the loopback interface),
it is assumed that the host should forward packets among the connected
networks. After transmitting a RIP request and Router Discovery Advertisements
or Solicitations on a new interface, the daemon enters a loop, listening for
RIP request and response and Router Discovery packets from other hosts.
.sp
.LP
When a request packet is received,
.B in.routed
formulates a reply based
on the information maintained in its internal tables. The response packet
generated contains a list of known routes, each marked with a "hop count"
metric (a count of 16 or greater is considered "infinite"). Advertised metrics
reflect the metric associated with an interface (see \fBifconfig\fR(1M)), so
setting the metric on an interface is an effective way to steer traffic.
.sp
.LP
Responses do not include routes with a first hop on the requesting network,
to implement in part split-horizon. Requests from query programs such as
.BR rtquery (1M)
are answered with the complete table.
.sp
.LP
The routing table maintained by the daemon includes space for several
gateways for each destination to speed recovery from a failing router. RIP
response packets received are used to update the routing tables, provided they
are from one of the several currently recognized gateways or advertise a
better metric than at least one of the existing gateways.
.sp
.LP
When an update is applied,
.B in.routed
records the change in its own
tables and updates the kernel routing table if the best route to the
destination changes. The change in the kernel routing table is reflected in
the next batch of response packets sent. If the next response is not scheduled
for a while, a flash update response containing only recently changed routes
is sent.
.sp
.LP
In addition to processing incoming packets, in.routed also periodically
checks the routing table entries. If an entry has not been updated for 3
minutes, the entry's metric is set to infinity and marked for deletion.
Deletions are delayed until the route has been advertised with an infnite
metric to insure the invalidation is propagated throughout the local internet.
This is a form of poison reverse.
.sp
.LP
Routes in the kernel table that are added or changed as a result of ICMP
Redirect messages are deleted after a while to minimize black-holes. When a
TCP connection suffers a timeout, the kernel tells
.BR in.routed ,
which
deletes all redirected routes through the gateway involved, advances the age
of all RIP routes through the gateway to allow an alternate to be chosen, and
advances of the age of any relevant Router Discovery Protocol default
routes.
.sp
.LP
Hosts acting as internetwork routers gratuitously supply their routing tables
every 30 seconds to all directly connected hosts and networks. These RIP
responses are sent to the broadcast address on nets that support broadcasting,
to the destination address on point-to-point links, and to the router's own
address on other networks. If RIPv2 is enabled, multicast packets are sent on
interfaces that support multicasting.
.sp
.LP
If no response is received on a remote interface, if there are errors while
sending responses, or if there are more errors than input or output (see
.BR netstat (1M)),
then the cable or some other part of the interface is
assumed to be disconnected or broken, and routes are adjusted appropriately.
.sp
.LP
The Internet Router Discovery Protocol is handled similarly. When the daemon
is supplying RIP routes, it also listens for Router Discovery Solicitations
and sends Advertisements. When it is quiet and listening to other RIP routers,
it sends Solicitations and listens for Advertisements. If it receives a good
Advertisement and it is not multi-homed, it stops listening for broadcast or
multicast RIP responses. It tracks several advertising routers to speed
recovery when the currently chosen router dies. If all discovered routers
disappear, the daemon resumes listening to RIP responses. It continues
listening to RIP while using Router Discovery if multi-homed to ensure all
interfaces are used.
.sp
.LP
The Router Discovery standard requires that advertisements have a default
"lifetime" of 30 minutes. That means should something happen, a client can be
without a good route for 30 minutes. It is a good idea to reduce the default
to 45 seconds using
.B "-P rdisc_interval=45"
on the command line
or
.B rdisc_interval=45
in the
.B /etc/gateways
file. See
.BR gateways (4).
.sp
.LP
While using Router Discovery (which happens by default when the system has a
single network interface and a Router Discover Advertisement is received),
there is a single default route and a variable number of redirected host
routes in the kernel table. On a host with more than one network interface,
this default route will be via only one of the interfaces. Thus, multi-homed
hosts running with
.B -q
might need the
.B no_rdisc
argument described
below.
.sp
.LP
To support "legacy" systems that can handle neither RIPv2 nor Router
Discovery, you can use the
.B pm_rdisc
parameter in the
.BR /etc/gateways .
See
.BR gateways (4).
.sp
.LP
By default, neither Router Discovery advertisements nor solicitations are
sent over point-to-point links (for example, PPP). The Solaris OE uses a
netmask of all ones (255.255.255.255) on point-to-point links.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.routed\fR supports the notion of "distant" passive or active gateways.
When the daemon is started, it reads the file
.B /etc/gateways
to find such
distant gateways that cannot be located using only information from a routing
socket, to discover if some of the local gateways are passive, and to obtain
other parameters. Gateways specified in this manner should be marked passive
if they are not expected to exchange routing information, while gateways
marked active should be willing to exchange RIP packets. Routes through
passive gateways are installed in the kernel's routing tables once upon
startup and are not included in transmitted RIP responses.
.sp
.LP
Distant active gateways are treated like network interfaces. RIP responses
are sent to the distant active gateway. If no responses are received, the
associated route is deleted from the kernel table and RIP responses are
advertised via other interfaces. If the distant gateway resumes sending RIP
responses, the associated route is restored.
.sp
.LP
Distant active gateways can be useful on media that do not support broadcasts
or multicasts but otherwise act like classic shared media, such as some ATM
networks. One can list all RIP routers reachable on the HIPPI or ATM network
in \fB/etc/gateways\fR with a series of "host" lines. Note that it is usually
desirable to use RIPv2 in such situations to avoid generating lists of
inferred host routes.
.sp
.LP
Gateways marked external are also passive, but are not placed in the kernel
routing table, nor are they included in routing updates. The function of
external entries is to indicate that another routing process will install such
a route if necessary, and that other routes to that destination should not be
installed by
.BR in.routed .
Such entries are required only when both routers
might learn of routes to the same destination.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Listed below are available options. Any other argument supplied is
interpreted as the name of a file in which the actions of
.BR in.routed
should be logged. It is better to use
.B -T
(described below) instead of
appending the name of the trace file to the command. Associated SMF properties
for these options are described, and can be set by means of a command of the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBrouteadm -m route:default \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not ignore RIPv2 authentication if we do not care about RIPv2
authentication. This option is required for conformance with RFC 2453.
However, it makes no sense and breaks using RIP as a discovery protocol to
ignore all RIPv2 packets that carry authentication when this machine does not
care about authentication. This option is equivalent to setting the
.B ignore_auth
property value to false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not run in the background. This option is meant for interactive use and is
not usable under the SMF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-F\fR \fBnet[/\fImask\fR][,\fImetric\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Minimize routes in transmissions via interfaces with addresses that match
.I net
(network number)/\fImask\fR (netmask), and synthesizes a default
route to this machine with the
.IR metric .
The intent is to reduce RIP
traffic on slow, point-to-point links, such as PPP links, by replacing many
large UDP packets of RIP information with a single, small packet containing a
"fake" default route. If \fImetric\fR is absent, a value of 14 is assumed to
limit the spread of the "fake" default route. This is a dangerous feature
that, when used carelessly, can cause routing loops. Notice also that more
than one interface can match the specified network number and mask. See also
.BR -g .
Use of this option is equivalent to setting the
.B minimize_routes
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used on internetwork routers to offer a route to the "default" destination.
It is equivalent to
.B "-F 0/0,1"
and is present mostly for historical
reasons. A better choice is
.B "-P pm_rdisc"
on the command line or
.B pm_rdisc
in the
.B /etc/gateways
file. A larger metric will be used
with the latter alternatives, reducing the spread of the potentially dangerous
default route. The
.B -g
(or
.BR -P )
option is typically used on a
gateway to the Internet, or on a gateway that uses another routing protocol
whose routes are not reported to other local routers. Note that because a
metric of 1 is used, this feature is dangerous. Its use more often creates
chaos with a routing loop than solves problems. Use of this option is
equivalent to setting the
.B offer_default_route
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes host or point-to-point routes not to be advertised, provided there is
a network route going the same direction. That is a limited kind of
aggregation. This option is useful on gateways to LANs that have other gateway
machines connected with point-to-point links such as SLIP. Use of this option
is equivalent to setting the
.B advertise_host_routes
property to false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause the machine to advertise a host or point-to-point route to its primary
interface. It is useful on multi-homed machines such as NFS servers. This
option should not be used except when the cost of the host routes it generates
is justified by the popularity of the server. It is effective only when the
machine is supplying routing information, because there is more than one
interface. The
.B -m
option overrides the
.B -q
option to the limited
extent of advertising the host route. Use of this option is equivalent to
setting the
.B advertise_host_routes_primary
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not install routes in kernel. By default, routes are installed in the
kernel. Use of this option is equivalent to setting the \fBinstall_routes\fR
property to false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I params
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to adding the parameter line
.I params
to the
.B /etc/gateways
file. Can also be set by means of the \fBparameters\fR
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Opposite of the
.B -s
option. This is the default when only one interface
is present. With this explicit option, the daemon is always in "quiet mode"
for RIP and does not supply routing information to other computers. Use of
this option is equivalent to setting the
.B quiet_mode
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force
.B in.routed
to supply routing information. This is the default if
multiple network interfaces are present on which RIP or Router Discovery have
not been disabled, and if the
.B "/dev/ip ndd"
variable
.B ip_forwarding
is set to 1. Use of this option is equivalent to setting
the
.B supply_routes
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B in.routed
is not acting as an internetwork router, instead of
entering the whole routing table in the kernel, it enters only a default route
for each internetwork router. This reduces the memory requirements without
losing any routing reliability. This option is provided for compatibility with
the previous, RIPv1-only
.BR in.routed .
Use of this option is generally
discouraged. Use of this option is equivalent to setting the
.B default_routes_only
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Runs in the foreground (as with
.BR -d )
and logs the contents of the
packets received (as with
.BR -zz ).
This is for compatibility with prior
versions of Solaris and has no SMF equivalent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.I tracefile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Increases the debugging level to at least 1 and causes debugging information
to be appended to the trace file. Because of security concerns, do not to run
.B in.routed
routinely with tracing directed to a file. Use of this option
is equivalent to setting the \fBlog_file\fR property to \fBtrace file
path\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables debug. Similar to
.BR -z ,
except, where
.B -z
increments
.BR trace_level ,
.B -v
sets
.B trace_level
to 1. Also,
.B -v
requires the
.B -T
option. Use of this option is equivalent to setting the
.B debug
property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the version of the daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Increase the debugging level, which causes more information to be logged on
the tracefile specified with
.B -T
or stdout. The debugging level can be
increased or decreased with the
.B SIGUSR1
or
.B SIGUSR2
signals or with
the
.BR rtquery "(1M) command."
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/defaultrouter
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
If this file is present and contains the address of a default router, the
system startup script does not run
.BR in.routed .
See
.BR defaultrouter (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gateways
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
List of distant gateways and general configuration options for
.BR in.routed .
See
.BR gateways (4).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWroute
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR route (1M),
.BR routeadm (1M),
.BR rtquery (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR inet (3SOCKET),
.BR defaultrouter (4),
.BR gateways (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR icmp (7P),
.BR inet (7P),
.BR udp (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIInternet Transport Protocols, XSIS 028112, Xerox System Integration
Standard\fR
.sp
.LP
.I "Routing Information Protocol, v2 (RFC 2453, STD 0056, November 1998)
.sp
.LP
.I "RIP-v2 MD5 Authentication (RFC 2082, January 1997)
.sp
.LP
.I "Routing Information Protocol, v1 (RFC 1058, June 1988)
.sp
.LP
.I "ICMP Router Discovery Messages (RFC 1256, September 1991)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In keeping with its intended design, this daemon deviates from RFC 2453 in
two notable ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
By default,
.B in.routed
does not discard authenticated RIPv2 messages
when RIP authentication is not configured. There is little to gain from
dropping authenticated packets when RIPv1 listeners will gladly process them.
Using the
.B -A
option causes
.B in.routed
to conform to the RFC in this
case.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Unauthenticated RIP requests are never discarded, even when RIP
authentication is configured. Forwarding tables are not secret and can be
inferred through other means such as test traffic. RIP is also the most common
router-discovery protocol, and hosts need to send queries that will be
answered.
.RE
.sp
.LP
.B in.routed
does not always detect unidirectional failures in network
interfaces, for example, when the output side fails.
