'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.stlisten 1M "11 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.stlisten \- Service Tag Listener
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/inet/in.stlisten\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.stlisten
daemon allows a mechanism for  discovering the
location of  the Service Tag. By default, the
.B in.stlisten
daemon
listens for discovery probes (using  a minimal built-in protocol) on
.B TCP
port 6481.
.sp
.LP
The daemon is under control of the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under its
.B inetd
framework.  It only runs upon demand and
exits when no longer in use.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWservicetagu
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR in.stdiscover (1M),
.BR stclient (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In open networks where the participants may not always be trusted, it is
recommended that you deploy this daemon with the
.BR passphrase-encryption
option. In
.BR smf (5)
environments, the following command can be used to
set the
.IR passphrase :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
< prepare a text file "passfile" containing the passphrase >
# chown svctag:daemon passfile
# chmod 600 passfile
svccfg -s svc:/network/stlisten \e
        setprop servicetag/passphrase=passfile
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.I passfile
is the path of a file containing the intended
.IR passphrase .
.sp
.LP
This
.I passphrase
can be subsequently cleared as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svccfg -s svc:/network/stlisten \e
        setprop servicetag/passphrase=""
.fi
.in -2
.sp

