'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.stdiscover 1M "11 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.stdiscover \- Service Tag Discovery Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/inet/in.stdiscover\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.stdiscover
daemon allows a mechanism for discovering the
location of the Service Tag Listener. By default, the \fBin.stdiscover\fR
daemon listens for discovery probes (using a minimal built-in protocol) on
.B UDP
port 6481.
.sp
.LP
The daemon is under control of the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under its
.B inetd
framework.  It only runs upon demand and
exits when no longer in use.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWservicetagu
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR in.stlisten (1M),
.BR stclient (1M)
