'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.timed 1M "23 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.timed \- UDP or TCP time protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.timed\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/time:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to
identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and
.BR smf (5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B in.timed
service provides the server-side of the time protocol.
The time server sends to requestors the time in seconds since midnight,
January 1, 1900. The time protocol is available on both TCP and UDP
transports through port 37.
.sp
.LP
The in.timed service is an
.BR inetd (1M)
.BR smf (5)
delegated service.
The
.B in.timed
detects which transport is requested by examining the
socket it is passed by the
.B inetd
daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TCP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Once a connection is established, the
.B in.timed
sends the time as a
32-bit binary number and closes the connection. Any received data is
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UDP-based service
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B in.timed
listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received,
the server generates a UDP datagram containing the time as a 32-bit binary
number and sends it to the client. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcnsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 868
