'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.tftpd 1M "5 Nov 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.tftpd, tftpd \- Internet Trivial File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.tftpd\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIrexmtval\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIhomedir\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtftpd\fR is a server that supports the Internet Trivial File Transfer
Protocol (TFTP).
.sp
.LP
Before responding to a request, the server attempts to change its current
directory to
.IR homedir ;
the default directory is
.BR /tftpboot .
.sp
.LP
The use of \fBtftp\fR does not require an account or password on the remote
system. Due to the lack of authentication information, \fBin.tftpd\fR will
allow only publicly readable files to be accessed. Files may be written only
if they already exist and are publicly writable. Note that this extends the
concept of "public" to include all users on all hosts that can be reached
through the network. This may not be appropriate on all systems, and its
implications should be considered before enabling this service.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.tftpd\fR runs with the user \fBID\fR and group \fBID\fR set to
\fB[GU]ID_NOBODY\fR under the assumption that no files exist with that owner
or group. However, nothing checks this assumption or enforces this
restriction.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Debug. When specified it sets the
.B SO_DEBUG
socket option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Secure. When specified, the directory change to
.I homedir
must succeed.
The daemon also changes its root directory to
.IR homedir .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fIrexmtval\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the value of the retransmission timeout in seconds. This also
affects the maximum session timeout in that the latter is set to five times
the retransmission timeout value.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.tftpd\fR server is IPv6-enabled. See
.BR ip6 (7P).
.sp
.LP
\fBin.tftpd\fR supports transfers of greater than 32 MB, per RFC 2348.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtftp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR tftp (1),
.BR inetadm (1M),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR netconfig (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR ip6 (7P)
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A.
.IR "RFC 2347, TFTP Option Extension" .
The
Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A.
.IR "RFC 2348, TFTP Blocksize Option" .
The
Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A. \fIRFC 2349, TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer
Size Options\fR. The Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Sollins, K.R.
.IR "RFC 1350, The TFTP Protocol (Revision 2)" .
Network
Working Group. July 1992.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBtftpd\fR server only acknowledges the transfer size option that is
sent with a
.B read
request when the octet transfer mode is specified.
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.tftpd.1m\fR service is managed by the service management
facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/tftp/udp6:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Responsibility
for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to
.BR inetd (1M).
Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view
configuration information for this service. The service's status can be
queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
Unlike most
.BR smf (5)
services, a manifest for the \fBtftp\fR service is
not included in the system. To create one and enable this service, the
administrator should:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Edit \fB/etc/inet/inetd.conf\fR and uncomment the \fBtftp\fR entry.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Run
.BR /usr/sbin/inetconv .
.RE
.sp
.LP
After you run
.BR inetconv ,
the \fBsvc:/network/tftp/udp6:default\fR
service is created and enabled.
