'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH intrstat 1M "16 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
intrstat \- report interrupt statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/intrstat\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcpulist\fR | \fB-C\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR] [\fB-T\fR u | d ]
     [\fB-x\fR \fIopt\fR[=\fIval\fR]] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B intrstat
utility gathers and displays run-time interrupt
statistics. The output is a table of device names and CPU IDs, where each
row of the table denotes a device, and each column of the table denotes a
CPU. Each cell in the table contains both the raw number of interrupts for
the given device on the given CPU, and the percentage of absolute time spent
in that device's interrupt handler on that CPU.
.sp
.LP
The device name is given in the form of
\fB{\fIname\fR}\fI#\fB{\fIinstance\fB}\fR. The name is the
normalized driver name, and typically corresponds to the name of the module
implementing the driver. See
.BR ddi_driver_name (9F).
Many Sun-delivered
drivers have their own manual pages. See
.BR Intro (7).
.sp
.LP
If standard output is a terminal, the table contains as many columns of
data as can fit within the terminal width. If standard output is not a
terminal, the table contains at most four columns of data. By default, data
is gathered and displayed for all CPUs. If the data cannot fit in a single
table, it is printed across multiple tables. The set of CPUs for which data
is displayed can be optionally specified with the
.B -c
or
.BR -C
option.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B intrstat
displays data once per second and runs
indefinitely. Both of these behaviors can be optionally controlled with the
interval and count parameters, respectively. See
.BR OPERANDS .
.sp
.LP
Because
.B intrstat
uses dynamic discovery, it reports only on devices
that raise interrupts while the command is running. Any devices that are
silent while
.B intrstat
is running are not displayed.
.sp
.LP
.B intrstat
induces a small system-wide performance degradation. As a
result, only the super-user can run
.B intrstat
by default. The
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
explains how administrators can grant
privileges to other users to permit them to run
.BR intrstat .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I cpulist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays data for the CPUs specified by
.IR cpulist .
.sp
.I cpulist
can be a single processor ID (for example,
.BR 4 ),
a range
of processor IDs (for example,
.BR 4-6 ),
or a comma separated list of
processor IDs or processor ID ranges (for example,
.B 4,5,6
or
.BR 4,6-8 ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I processor_set_id
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays data for the CPUs in the processor set specified by
.IR processor_set_id .
.sp
.B intrstat
modifies its output to always reflect the CPUs in the
specified processor set. If a CPU is added to the set, \fBintrstat\fR
modifies its output to include the added CPU. If a CPU is removed from the
set,
.B intrstat
modifies its output to exclude the removed CPU. At most
one processor set can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T u
|
.B d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a time stamp.
.sp
Specify
.B u
for a printed representation of the internal representation
of time. See
.BR time (2).
Specify
.B d
for standard date format. See
.BR date (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fIopt\fR[=\fIval\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable or modify a DTrace runtime option or D compiler option. The list of
options is found in the
.IR "Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide" .
A boolean
option is enabled by specifying its name. Options with values are set by
separating the option name and value with an equal sign (\fB=\fR)
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I count
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates the number of intervals to execute before exiting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interval
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates the number of seconds to be executed before exiting.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.B intrstat
Without Options
.sp
.LP
Without options,
.B intrstat
displays a table of trap types and CPUs. At
most, four columns can fit in the default terminal width. If there are more
than four CPUs, multiple tables are displayed.

.sp
.LP
The following example runs
.B intrstat
on a uniprocessor Intel
IA/32-based laptop:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# intrstat
               device |      cpu0 %tim
     -----------------+---------------
                ata#0 |       166  0.4
                ata#1 |         0  0.0
          audioi810#0 |         6  0.0
              i8042#0 |       281  0.7
               iprb#0 |         6  0.0
               uhci#1 |         6  0.0
               uhci#2 |         6  0.0

               device |      cpu0 %tim
     -----------------+---------------
                ata#0 |       161  0.5
                ata#1 |         0  0.0
          audioi810#0 |         6  0.0
              i8042#0 |       303  0.6
               iprb#0 |         6  0.0
               uhci#1 |         6  0.0
               uhci#2 |         6  0.0
     ...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdtrc
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command-line syntax is Evolving. The human-readable output is
Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR trapstat (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR Intro (7),
.BR ddi_driver_name (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
