'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH intrd 1M "21 Jun 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
intrd \- interrupt distribution daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/intrd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B intrd
daemon is started at boot time to monitor the assignments
between interrupts and
.BR CPU s.
If
.B intrd
decides that the current
assignments are imbalanced and harmful to system performance, it will
generate and implement new assignments.
.sp
.LP
Any notifications will be delivered via
.BR syslogd (1M).
.sp
.LP
Because
.B intrd
dynamically monitors a system  for optimal performance,
it consumes a small amount of CPU  time, even on an otherwise idle system.
This behavior is normal.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpmu
_
Interface Stability Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interrupt distribution daemon is managed by the service management
facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/intrd:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
