'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter,
.\" the default path is /usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere
.\" other than the default, modify the given path to access the file
.\" at the installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ipfstat 1M "3 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ipfstat \- reports on packet filter statistics and filter list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipfstat\fR [\fB-6aACdfghIilnoRstv\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfstat\fR [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIaddrport\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprotocol\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIaddrport\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR \fIrefreshtime\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipfstat
command is part of a suite of commands associated with
the Solaris IP Filter feature. See
.BR ipfilter (5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipfstat
command examines
.B /dev/kmem
using the symbols
.BR _fr_flags ,
.BR _frstats ,
.BR _filterin ,
and
.BR _filterout .
To
run and work, it needs to be able to read both
.B /dev/kmem
and the
kernel itself.
.sp
.LP
The default behavior of
.B ipfstat
is to retrieve and display the
statistics which have been accumulated over time as the kernel has put
packets through the filter.
.sp
.LP
The role of
.B ipfstat
is to display current kernel statistics gathered
as a result of applying the filters in place (if any) to packets going in
and out of the kernel. This is the default operation when no command line
parameters are present. When supplied with either
.B -i
or
.BR -o ,
.B ipfstat
will retrieve and display the appropriate list of filter rules
currently installed and in use by the kernel.
.sp
.LP
.B ipfstat
uses kernel device files to obtain information. The default
permissions of these files require
.B ipfstat
to be run as root for all
operations.
.sp
.LP
The \fBipfstat\fR command supports the \fBkstat\fR(3KSTAT) kernel facility.
Because of this support, as an alternative to
.BR ipfstat ,
you can use
.BR kstat (1M).
For example:
.sp
.LP
# kstat \(hym ipf
.sp
.LP
Using the \fBipfstat -t\fR option causes \fBipfstat\fR to enter the
state top mode. In this mode the state table is displayed similarly to the
way the Unix
.B top
utility displays the process table. The
.BR -C ,
.BR -D ,
.BR -P ,
.B -S
and
.B -T
command line options can be used
to restrict the state entries that will be shown and to specify the
frequency of display updates.
.sp
.LP
In state top mode, use the following keys to influence the displayed
information:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Select information to display.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Redraw the screen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B q
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Quit the program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Switch between different sorting criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Reverse the sorting criteria.
.RE

.sp
.LP
States can be sorted by protocol number, by number of IP packets, by number
of bytes, and by time-to-live of the state entry. The default is to sort by
the number of bytes. States are sorted in descending order, but you can use
the
.B r
key to sort them in ascending order.
.sp
.LP
It is not possible to interactively change the source, destination, and
protocol filters or the refresh frequency. This must be done from the
command line.
.sp
.LP
The screen must have at least 80 columns for correct display. However,
.B ipfstat
does not check the screen width.
.sp
.LP
Only the first \fIX\fR-5 entries that match the sort and filter criteria
are displayed (where
.I X
is the number of rows on the display). There is
no way to see additional entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -6
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Display filter lists and states for IPv6, if available. This option might
change in the future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Display the accounting filter list and show bytes counted against each
rule.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Display packet authentication statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Valid only in combination with \fB-t\fR. Display "closed" states as well in
the top. Normally, a TCP connection is not displayed when it reaches the
.B CLOSE_WAIT
protocol state. With this option enabled, all state entries
are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Produce debugging output when displaying data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I addrport
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Valid only in combination with
.BR -t .
Limit the state top display to
show only state entries whose destination IP address and port match the
.I addrport
argument. The
.I addrport
specification is of the form
\fIipaddress\fR[,\fIport\fR]. The \fIipaddress\fR and \fIport\fR should be
either numerical or the string
.B any
(specifying any IP address and any
port, in that order). If the
.B -D
option is not specified, it defaults
to
.BR "-D any,any" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show fragment state information (statistics) and held state information (in
the kernel) if any is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show groups currently configured (both active and inactive).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show per-rule the number of times each one scores a "hit". For use in
combination with
.BR -i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Display the filter list used for the input side of the kernel IP
processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Swap between retrieving \fBinactive\fR/\fBactive\fR filter list details.
For use in combination with
.BR -i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
When used with
.BR -s ,
show a list of active state entries (no
statistics).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show the rule number for each rule as it is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Display the filter list used for the output side of the kernel IP
processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I protocol
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Valid only in combination with
.BR -t .
Limit the state top display to
show only state entries that match a specific protocol. The argument can be
a protocol name (as defined in
.BR /etc/protocols )
or a protocol number.
If this option is not specified, state entries for any protocol are
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Disable both IP address-to-hostname resolution and port number-to-service
name resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I addrport
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Valid only in combination with
.BR -t .
Limit the state top display to
show only state entries whose source IP address and port match the
.I addrport
argument. The
.I addrport
specification is of the form
\fIipaddress\fR[,\fIport\fR]. The \fIipaddress\fR and \fIport\fR should be
either numerical or the string
.B any
(specifying any IP address and any
port, in that order). If the
.B -S
option is not specified, it defaults
to
.BR "-S any,any" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show packet/flow state information (statistics only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.I refreshtime
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Valid only in combination with
.BR -t .
Specifies how often the state
.B top
display should be updated. The refresh time is the number of
seconds between an update. Any positive integer can be used. The default
(and minimal update time) is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show the state table in a way similar to the way the Unix utility,
.BR top ,
shows the process table. States can be sorted in a number of
different ways.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Turn verbose mode on. Displays additional debugging information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/kmem
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ksyms
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ipl
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ipstate
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipfu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipf (1M),
.BR kstat (1M),
.BR kstat (3KSTAT),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ipfilter (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
