'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter,
.\" the default path is /usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere
.\" other than the default, modify the given path to access the file
.\" at the installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ipmon 1M "3 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ipmon \- monitors /dev/ipl for logged packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipmon\fR [\fB-abDFhnpstvxX\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIdevice\fR] [ [o] [NSI]] [\fB-O\fR [NSI]]
     [\fB-P\fR \fIpidfile\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipmon
command is part of a suite of commands associated with the
Solaris IP Filter feature. See \fBipfilter\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipmon
command opens
.B /dev/ipl
for reading and awaits data to
be saved from the packet filter. The binary data read from the device is
reprinted in human readable form. However, IP addresses are not mapped back
to hostnames, nor are ports mapped back to service names. The output goes to
standard output, by default, or a filename, if specified on the command
line. Should the
.B -s
option be used, output is sent instead to
.BR syslogd (1M).
Messages sent by means of
.B syslog
have the day,
month, and year removed from the message, but the time (including
microseconds), as recorded in the log, is still included.
.sp
.LP
Messages generated by
.B ipmon
consist of whitespace-separated fields.
Fields common to all messages are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The date of packet receipt. This is suppressed when the message is sent to
.BR syslog .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The time of packet receipt. This is in the form
\fIHH\fR:\fIMM\fR:\fISS\fR.\fIF\fR, for hours, minutes, seconds, and
fractions of a second (which can be several digits long).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The name of the interface on which the packet was processed, for example,
.BR ib1 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The group and rule number of the rule, for example,
.BR @0:17 .
These can
be viewed with \fBipfstat -in\fR for input rules or \fBipfstat\fR
\fB-in\fR for output rules. See \fBipfstat\fR(1M).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The action:
.B p
for passed,
.B b
for blocked,
.B s
for a short
packet,
.B n
did not match any rules, or
.B L
for a log rule.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The addresses. This is actually three fields: the source address and port
(separated by a comma), the symbol \(->, and the destination address and
port. For example: \fB209.53.17.22,80 \(-> 198.73.220.17,1722\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPR\fR followed by the protocol name or number, for example, \fBPR
tcp\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBlen\fR followed by the header length and total length of the packet, for
example, \fBlen 20 40\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the packet is a TCP packet, there will be an additional field starting
with a hyphen followed by letters corresponding to any flags that were set.
See
.BR ipf.conf (4)
for a list of letters and their flags.
.sp
.LP
If the packet is an ICMP packet, there will be two fields at the end, the
first always being
.BR icmp ,
the next being the ICMP message and
submessage type, separated by a slash. For example,
.B "icmp 3/3"
for a
port unreachable message.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Open all of the device logfiles for reading log entries. All entries are
displayed to the same output device (stderr or syslog).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For rules which log the body of a packet, generate hex output representing
the packet contents after the headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause
.B ipmon
to turn itself into a daemon. Using subshells or
backgrounding of
.B ipmon
is not required to turn it into an orphan so it
can run indefinitely.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternative device/file from which to read the log information
for normal IP Filter log records.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flush the current packet log buffer. The number of bytes flushed is
displayed, even if the result is zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays usage information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP addresses and port numbers will be mapped, where possible, back into
hostnames and service names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-N\fR \fIdevice\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the logfile to be opened for reading NAT log records from or to
.IR device .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIletter\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify which log files from which to actually read data.
.BR N ,
NAT
logfile;
.BR S ,
state logfile;
.BR I ,
normal IP Filter logfile. The
\fB-a\fR option is equivalent to using \fB-o NSI\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-O\fR \fIletter\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify which log files you do not wish to read from. This is most commonly
used in conjunction with the
.BR -a .
Letters available as parameters are
the same as for
.BR -o .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause the port number in log messages always to be printed as a number and
never attempt to look it up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIpidfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write the PD of the
.B ipmon
process to a file. By default this is
.BR /var/run/ipmon.pid .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packet information read in will be sent through
.B syslogd
rather than
saved to a file. The default facility when compiled and installed is
.BR local0 .
The following levels are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOG_INFO
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged using the
.B log
keyword as the action rather than
\fBpass\fR or \fBblock\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOG_NOTICE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged that are also passed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOG_WARNING
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged that are also blocked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOG_ERR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets that have been logged and that can be considered "short".
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-S\fR \fIdevice\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the logfile to be opened for reading state log records from or to
.IR device .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read the input file/device in the way performed by \fBtail\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show TCP
.BR window ,
.BR ack ,
and
.B sequence
fields
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the packet data in hex.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -X
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the log header record data in hex.
.RE

.SH FILES
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ipl
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ipnat
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /dev/ipstate
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipfu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBipf\fR(1M), \fBipfstat\fR(1M), \fBipnat\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBipfilter\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBipmon\fR expects data that it reads to be consistent with how it should
be saved and aborts if it fails an assertion which detects an anomaly in the
recorded data.
