'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH isns 1M "8 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
isns \- Internet Storage Name Service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/isns\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Internet Storage Name Service (iSNS) provides consolidated discovery
services for Internet SCSI (iSCSI) and Internet Fibre Channel Protocol (iFCP)
devices in an IP network.  iSNS uses a client/server mechanism: servers store
configuration information for clients, and provide that information upon a
client's request. IETF RFC  4171 describes the protocols between the server
and client.
.sp
.LP
This man page provides a summary of the Solaris iSNS server implementation.
The current implementation does not support iFCP devices.
.sp
.LP
Solaris iSNS server is implemented as the daemon
.BR isns ,
which binds to
the well -known port 3205 to service client requests. The daemon is started
by the service management facility (\fBsmf\fR(5)), using the fault management
resource identifier (FMRI):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/isns_server
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Use
.BR svcadm "(1M) to enable"
.BR isns .
Enabling the service means that
it starts and runs automatically whenever the operating system is booted. The
state of service can be displayed with the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
The service properties listed below can be managed using \fBsvccfg\fR(1M).
The default value is assigned per RFC 4171 and implementation choice.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B data_store_location
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration data store location. The default location is
.BR /etc/isns/isnsdata.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESI_retry_threshold_count
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entity Status Inquiry retry threshold counter. The default count is
.BR 3 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Management_SCNs_Enabled
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boolean that determines whether Management State Change Notification is
enabled. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Authorized_Control_Nodes
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Control node names.
.RE

.sp
.LP
After changing a property value, you must use \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) \fBrefresh\fR
to enable
.B isns
to recognize the new value. If you change the
.B data_store_location
property, you must enter a \fBsvcadm restart\fR
command for the change to take effect.
.sp
.LP
RFC 4171 defines the default discovery domain, the default domain set, and
the "Default DD/DDS" setting with the intent of managing clients that have
not been assigned to any user-defined discovery domain. The server adopts the
following behaviors with respect to the default discovery domain and domain
set:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An unassigned client is added to the default discovery domain. A newly
registered client or a client that was removed from its last discovery domain
membership is considered to be an unassigned client.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When a client gets assigned to a user-defined discovery domain, the server
will remove the client from the default discovery domain.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The default discovery domain set is allowed to be administratively activated
or deactivated in order to let the administrator control discovery among
clients in the default discovery domain.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
It is not allowed to administratively add a client to the default discovery
domain, nor to administratively add a user-defined discovery domain to the
default discovery domain set.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The default state of the Default discovery domain set is inactive.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B isns
server supports certain
.BR rbac (5)
authorizations that
allow you to administer
.B isns
activity. These authorizations include the
following
.BR auth_attr (4)
privileges:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B solaris.isnsmgr.write
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Required to create a discovery domain or domain set, to enable/disable a
discovery domain set and to change grouping of iSNS  clients in a discovery
domain or grouping of discovery domains in a discovery domain set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B solaris.smf.manage.isns
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Required to manage the
.B isns
server through  the
.BR smf (5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B solaris.smf.value.isns
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Required to change the SMF service properties associated with
.BR isns .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The iSNS Server Management profile (see
.BR prof_attr (4))
includes all of
the preceding authorizations. See
.BR rbac (5)
for an overview of roles and
authorizations.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
There are no options supported by the
.B isns
daemon.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Starting an
.B isns
Server
.sp
.LP
The following command starts the
.B isns
server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm enable svc:/network/isns_server\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Stopping an
.B isns
Server
.sp
.LP
The following command stops the
.B isns
server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm disable svc:/network/isns_server\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Changing an
.B isns
Property
.sp
.LP
The following sequence of commands changes the value of the
.B ESI_retry_threshold_count
property.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/network/isns_server setprop \e
config/ESI_retry_threshold_count = 6\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/network/isns_server\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/sbin/isns
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
iSNS daemon binary.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWisnsr
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR isnsadm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR auth_attr (4),
.BR prof_attr (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR rbac (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
It is strongly recommended that you restart the server (\fBsvcadm
restart\fR) after a service property is changed. This allows the server to
apply a uniform setting for existing and new clients.
.sp
.LP
A control node, as described in RFC 4171, is not required to administer the
server. Control node operations can be achieved through the
.BR isnsadm (1M)
command interface on the local host. For example,
.B isnsadm
enables you
to create a discovery domain and a discovery domain set and to add a member
to it, in order to create discovery domain and discovery domain set
associations.
