'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kadmin 1M "29 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
kadmin, kadmin.local \- Kerberos database administration program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/kadmin\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIrealm\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprincipal\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fIquery\fR]
 [\fB-s\fR \fIadmin_server\fR [\fI:port\fR]] [ [\fB-c\fR \fIcredential_cache\fR]
 | [\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab\fR]] | [\fB-w\fR \fIpassword\fR]] [\fB-x\fR \fIdb_args\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/kadmin.local\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIrealm\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprincipal\fR]
 [\fB-q\fR \fIquery\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdbname\fR] [\fB-e\fR "\fIenc:salt.\|.\|.\fR"] [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-D\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBkadmin\fR and \fBkadmin.local\fR are interactive command-line interfaces
to the Kerberos V5 administration system. They provide for the maintenance
of Kerberos principals, policies, and service key tables (keytabs).
\fBkadmin\fR and \fBkadmin.local\fR provide identical functionality; the
difference is that
.B kadmin.local
can run only on the master KDC and
does not use Kerberos authentication.
.sp
.LP
Except as explicitly noted otherwise, this man page uses
.B kadmin
to
refer to both versions.
.sp
.LP
By default, both versions of
.B kadmin
attempt to determine your user
name and perform operations on behalf of your "\fIusername\fR/\fIadmin\fR"
instance. Operations performed are subject to privileges granted or denied
to this user instance by the Kerberos ACL file (see
.BR kadm5.acl (4)).
You
may perform administration as another user instance by using the
.BR -p
option.
.sp
.LP
The remote version,
.BR kadmin ,
uses Kerberos authentication and an
encrypted RPC to operate securely from anywhere on the network. It normally
prompts for a password and authenticates the user to the Kerberos
administration server,
.BR kadmind ,
whose service principal is
\fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR. Some options specific to the remote version permit
the password prompt to be bypassed. The
.B -c
option searches the named
credentials cache for a valid ticket for the \fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR service
and uses it to authenticate the user to the Kerberos admin server without a
password. The
.B -k
option searches a keytab for a credential to
authenticate to the \fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR service, and again no password
is collected. If
.B kadmin
has collected a password, it requests a
\fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR Kerberos service ticket from the KDC, and uses that
service ticket to interact with
.BR kadmind .
.sp
.LP
The local version,
.BR kadmin.local ,
must be run with an effective UID of
root, and normally uses a key from the \fB/var/krb5/.k5.\fIrealm\fR stash
file (see \fBkdb5_util\fR(1M)) to decrypt information from the database
rather than prompting for a password. The
.B -m
option will bypass the
\fB\&.k5.\fIrealm\fR stash file and prompt for the master password.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIcredentials_cache\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Search
.I credentials_cache
for a service ticket for the
\fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR service; it can be acquired with the \fBkinit\fR(1)
program. If this option is not specified,
.B kadmin
requests a new
service ticket from the KDC, and stores it in its own temporary credentials
cache.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIdbname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a non-standard database name. [Local only]
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turn on debug mode. [Local only]
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fI"enc:salt .\|.\|."\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a different encryption type and/or key salt. [Local only]
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the default keytab (\fB-k\fR) or a specific keytab (\fB-t\fR
.IR keytab )
to decrypt the KDC response instead of prompting for a
password. In this case, the default principal will be
\fBhost\fR/\fBhostname\fR. This is primarily used for keytab maintenance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Accept the database master password from the keyboard rather than using the
\fB/var/krb5/.k5.\fIrealm\fR stash file. [Local only]
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authenticate
.I principal
to the \fBkadmin/\fIfqdn\fR service.
Otherwise,
.B kadmin
will append
.B /admin
to the primary principal
name of the default credentials cache, the value of the \fBUSER\fR
environment variable, or the username as obtained with
.BR getpwuid ,
in
that order of preference.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-q\fR \fIquery\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pass
.I query
directly to
.BR kadmin ,
which will perform
.IR query
and then exit. This can be useful for writing scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR \fIrealm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I realm
as the default database realm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIadmin_server\fR[\fI:port\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Administer the specified
.I admin
server at the specified port number
(\fIport\fR). This can be useful in administering a realm not known to your
client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fR \fIpassword\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I password
instead of prompting for one. Note that placing the
password for a Kerberos principal with administration access into a shell
script can be dangerous if unauthorized users gain read access to the script
or can read arguments of this command through
.BR ps (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fIdb_args\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pass database-specific arguments to
.BR kadmin .
Supported arguments are
for LDAP and the
.B Berkeley-db2
plug-in. These arguments are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBbinddn\fR=\fIbinddn\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
LDAP simple bind DN for authorization on the directory server. Overrides
the
.B ldap_kadmind_dn
parameter setting in \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBbindpwd\fR=\fIbindpwd\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bind password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbname\fR=\fIname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For the
.B Berkeley-db2
plug-in, specifies a name for the Kerberos
database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnconns\fR=\fInum\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum number of server connections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBport\fR=\fInum\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory server connection port.
.RE

.RE

.SH COMMANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list_requests
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all the commands available for
.BR kadmin .
Aliased by
.B lr
and
.BR ? .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B get_privs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the current Kerberos administration privileges (ACLs) for the
principal that is currently running
.BR kadmin .
The privileges are based
on the
.B /etc/krb5/kadm5.acl
file on the master KDC. Aliased by
.BR getprivs .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBadd_principal\fR \fB[\fIoptions\fR]\fR
.I newprinc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a new principal,
.IR newprinc ,
prompting twice for a password. If
the
.B -policy
option is not specified and a policy named \fBdefault\fR
exists, then the \fBdefault\fR policy is assigned to the principal; note
that the assignment of the \fBdefault\fR policy occurs automatically only
when a principal is first created, so the \fBdefault\fR policy must already
exist for the assignment to occur. The automatic assignment of the
\fBdefault\fR policy can be suppressed with the \fB-clearpolicy\fR option.
This command requires the
.B add
privilege. Aliased by
.B addprinc
and
.BR ank .
The options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-expire\fR \fIexpdate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expiration date of the principal. See the
.B "Time Formats"
section
for the valid absolute time formats that you can specify for
.IR expdate .

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-pwexpire\fR \fIpwexpdate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password expiration date. See the
.B "Time Formats"
section for the
valid absolute time formats that you can specify for
.IR pwexpdate .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-maxlife\fR \fImaxlife\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum ticket life for the principal. See the \fBTime Formats\fR
section for the valid time duration formats that you can specify for
\fImaxlife\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-maxrenewlife\fR \fImaxrenewlife\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum renewable life of tickets for the principal. See the \fBTime\fR
\fBFormats\fR section for the valid time duration formats that you can
specify for \fImaxrenewlife\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-kvno\fR \fIkvno\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Explicitly set the key version number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-policy\fR \fIpolicy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Policy used by the principal. If both the
.B -policy
and
\fB-clearpolicy\fR options are not specified, the \fBdefault\fR policy is
used if it exists; otherwise, the principal will have no policy. Also note
that the password and principal name must be different when you add a new
principal with a specific policy or the \fBdefault\fR policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -clearpolicy
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-clearpolicy\fR prevents the \fBdefault\fR policy from being assigned
when
.B -policy
is not specified. This option has no effect if the
\fBdefault\fR policy does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_postdated\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_postdated\fR prohibits the principal from obtaining postdated
tickets. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_POSTDATED
flag.)
\fB+allow_postdated\fR clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_forwardable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_forwardable\fR prohibits the principal from obtaining forwardable
tickets. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_FORWARDABLE
flag.)
\fB+allow_forwardable\fR clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_renewable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_renewable\fR prohibits the principal from obtaining renewable
tickets. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_RENEWABLE
flag.)
\fB+allow_renewable\fR clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_proxiable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_proxiable\fR prohibits the principal from obtaining proxiable
tickets. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_PROXIABLE
flag.)
\fB+allow_proxiable\fR clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_dup_skey\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_dup_skey\fR disables user-to-user authentication for the
principal by prohibiting this principal from obtaining a session key for
another user. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_DUP_SKEY
flag.)
\fB+allow_dup_skey\fR clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBrequires_preauth\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB+requires_preauth\fR requires the principal to preauthenticate before
being allowed to
.BR kinit .
.RB "(Sets the" " KRB5_KDB_REQUIRES_PRE_AUTH"
flag.)
.B -requires_preauth
clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBrequires_hwauth\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB+requires_hwauth\fR requires the principal to preauthenticate using a
hardware device before being allowed to kinit. (Sets the
\fBKRB5_KDB_REQUIRES_HW_AUTH\fR flag.) \fB-requires_hwauth\fR clears this
flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_svr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_svr\fR prohibits the issuance of service tickets for the
principal. (Sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_SVR
flag.) \fB+allow_svr\fR
clears this flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_tgs_req\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_tgs_req\fR specifies that a Ticket-Granting Service (TGS) request
for a service ticket for the principal is not permitted. This option is
useless for most things.
.B +allow_tgs_req
clears this flag. The default
is
.BR +allow_tgs_req .
In effect,
.B -allow_tgs_req
sets the
\fBKRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_TGT_BASED\fR flag on the principal in the database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBallow_tix\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB-allow_tix\fR forbids the issuance of any tickets for the principal.
\fB+allow_tix\fR clears this flag. The default is
.BR +allow_tix .
In
effect,
.B -allow_tix
sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_DISALLOW_ALL_TIX
flag on
the principal in the database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBneedchange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB+needchange\fR sets a flag in attributes field to force a password
change;
.B -needchange
clears it. The default is
.BR -needchange \&.
In
effect,
.B +needchange
sets the
.B KRB5_KDB_REQUIRES_PWCHANGE
flag on
the principal in the database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fB-\fR|\fB+\fR}\fBpassword_changing_service\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB+password_changing_service\fR sets a flag in the attributes field
marking this as a password change service principal (useless for most
things).
.B -password_changing_service
clears the flag. This flag
intentionally has a long name. The default is
\fB-password_changing_service\fR\&. In effect,
\fB+password_changing_service\fR sets the \fBKRB5_KDB_PWCHANGE_SERVICE\fR
flag on the principal in the database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -randkey
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the key of the principal to a random value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-pw\fR \fIpassword\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the key of the principal to the specified string and does not prompt
for a password. Note that using this option in a shell script can be
dangerous if unauthorized users gain read access to the script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR "enc:salt .\|.\|."\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the list of enctype:salttype pairs given in
.BR kdc.conf (4)
for
setting the key of the principal. The quotes are necessary if there are
multiple enctype:salttype pairs. One key for each similar enctype and same
salttype will be created and the first one listed will be used. For example,
in a list of two similar enctypes with the same salt, "des-cbc-crc:normal
des-cbc-md5:normal", one key will be created and it will be of type
des-cbc-crc:normal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBaddprinc tlyu/admin\fR
WARNING: no policy specified for "tlyu/admin@ACME.COM";
defaulting to no policy.
Enter password for principal tlyu/admin@ACME.COM:
Re-enter password for principal tlyu/admin@ACME.COM:
Principal "tlyu/admin@ACME.COM" created.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_ADD\fR (requires \fBadd\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_BAD_MASK\fR (should not happen)
.sp
\fBKADM5_DUP\fR (principal exists already)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_POLICY\fR (policy does not exist)
.sp
\fBKADM5_PASS_Q_*\fR (password quality violations)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdelete_principal\fR [\fB-force\fR] \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the specified principal from the database. This command prompts for
deletion, unless the \fB-force\fR option is given. This command requires the
\fBdelete\fR privilege. Aliased by \fBdelprinc\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBdelprinc mwm_user\fR
Are you sure you want to delete the principal
"mwm_user@ACME.COM"? (yes/no): \fByes\fR
Principal "mwm_user@ACME.COM" deleted.
Make sure that you have removed this principal from
all kadmind ACLs before reusing.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_DELETE\fR (requires \fBdelete\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_PRINC\fR (principal does not exist)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmodify_principal\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modifies the specified principal, changing the fields as specified. The
options are as above for
.BR add_principal ,
except that password changing
is forbidden by this command. In addition, the option \fB-clearpolicy\fR
will clear the current policy of a principal. This command requires the
\fBmodify\fR privilege. Aliased by \fBmodprinc\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_MODIFY\fR (requires \fBmodify\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_PRINC\fR (principal does not exist)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_POLICY\fR (policy does not exist)
.sp
\fBKADM5_BAD_MASK\fR (should not happen)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBchange_password\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the password of
.IR principal .
Prompts for a new password if
neither
.B -randkey
or
.B -pw
is specified. Requires the
\fBchangepw\fR privilege, or that the principal that is running the program
to be the same as the one changed. Aliased by
.BR cpw .
The following
options are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -randkey
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the key of the principal to a random value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-pw\fR \fIpassword\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the password to the specified string. Not recommended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR "enc:salt .\|.\|."\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the list of enctype:salttype pairs given in
.BR kdc.conf (4)
for
setting the key of the principal. The quotes are necessary if there are
multiple enctype:salttype pairs. For each key, the first matching similar
enctype and same salttype in the list will be used to set the new key(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -keepold
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Keeps the previous kvno's keys around. There is no easy way to delete the
old keys, and this flag is usually not necessary except perhaps for TGS keys
as it will allow existing valid TGTs to continue to work.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBcpw systest\fR
Enter password for principal systest@ACME.COM:
Re-enter password for principal systest@ACME.COM:
Password for systest@ACME.COM changed.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_MODIFY\fR (requires the \fBmodify\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_PRINC\fR (principal does not exist)
.sp
\fBKADM5_PASS_Q_*\fR (password policy violation errors)
.sp
\fBKADM5_PASS_REUSE\fR (password is in principal's password history)
.sp
\fBKADM5_PASS_TOOSOON\fR (current password minimum life not expired)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBget_principal\fR [\fB-terse\fR] \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gets the attributes of
.IR principal .
Requires the
.BR inquire
privilege, or that the principal that is running the program to be the same
as the one being listed. With the
.B -terse
option, outputs fields as
quoted tab-separated strings. Aliased by \fBgetprinc\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Examples:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBgetprinc tlyu/admin\fR
Principal: tlyu/admin@ACME.COM
Expiration date: [never]
Last password change: Thu Jan 03 12:17:46 CET 2008
Password expiration date: [none]
Maximum ticket life: 24855 days 03:14:07
Maximum renewable life: 24855 days 03:14:07
Last modified: Thu Jan 03 12:17:46 CET 2008 (root/admin@ACME.COM)
Last successful authentication: [never]
Last failed authentication: [never]
Failed password attempts: 0
Number of keys: 5
Key: vno 2, AES-256 CTS mode with 96-bit SHA-1 HMAC, no salt
Key: vno 2, AES-128 CTS mode with 96-bit SHA-1 HMAC, no salt
Key: vno 2, Triple DES cbc mode with HMAC/sha1, no salt
Key: vno 2, ArcFour with HMAC/md5, no salt
Key: vno 2, DES cbc mode with RSA-MD5, no salt
Attributes: REQUIRES_PRE_AUTH
Policy: [none]
kadmin: \fBgetprinc -terse tlyu/admin\fR
"tlyu/admin@ACME.COM"   0       1199359066      0       2147483647
"root/admin@ACME.COM"   1199359066      128     2       0       "[none]"       21474836
47      0       0       0       5       1       2       18      0       1      2
17      0       1       2       16      0       1       2       23      0      12
       3       0
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_GET\fR (requires the get [inquire] privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_PRINC\fR (principal does not exist)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist_principals\fR [\fIexpression\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieves all or some principal names.
.I expression
is a shell-style
glob expression that can contain the wild-card characters ?, *, and []'s.
All principal names matching the expression are printed. If no expression is
provided, all principal names are printed. If the expression does not
contain an "@" character, an "@" character followed by the local realm is
appended to the expression. Requires the
.B list
privilege. Aliased by
.BR listprincs ,
.BR get_principals ,
and
.BR getprincs .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Examples:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBlistprincs test*\fR
test3@ACME.COM
test2@ACME.COM
test1@ACME.COM
testuser@ACME.COM
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBadd_policy\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpolicy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.RB "Adds the named policy to the policy database. Requires the" " add"
privilege. Aliased by
.BR addpol .
The following options are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-maxlife\fR \fImaxlife\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sets the maximum lifetime of a password. See the \fBTime Formats\fR
section for the valid time duration formats that you can specify for
\fImaxlife\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-minlife\fR \fIminlife\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sets the minimum lifetime of a password. See the \fBTime Formats\fR
section for the valid time duration formats that you can specify for
\fIminlife\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-minlength\fR \fIlength\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sets the minimum length of a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-minclasses\fR \fInumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sets the minimum number of character classes allowed in a password. The
valid values are:
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
only letters (himom)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
both letters and numbers (hi2mom)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
letters, numbers, and punctuation (hi2mom!)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-history\fR \fInumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sets the number of past keys kept for a principal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_ADD\fR (requires the \fBadd\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_DUP\fR (policy already exists)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdelete_policy [-force]\fR \fIpolicy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the named policy. Unless the \fB-force\fR option is specified,
prompts for confirmation before deletion. The command will fail if the
policy is in use by any principals. Requires the
.B delete
privilege.
Aliased by
.BR delpol .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBdel_policy guests\fR
Are you sure you want to delete the
policy "guests"? (yes/no): \fByes\fR
Policy "guests" deleted.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_DELETE\fR (requires the delete privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_POLICY\fR (policy does not exist)
.sp
\fBKADM5_POLICY_REF\fR (reference count on policy is not zero)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmodify_policy\fR \fB[\fIoptions\fR]\fR \fIpolicy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modifies the named policy. Options are as above for \fBadd_policy\fR.
Requires the \fBmodify\fR privilege. Aliased by \fBmodpol\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_MODIFY\fR (requires the \fBmodify\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_POLICY\fR (policy does not exist)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBget_policy\fR [\fB-terse\fR] \fIpolicy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the values of the named policy. Requires the \fBinquire\fR
privilege. With the
.B -terse
flag, outputs the fields as quoted strings
separated by tabs. Aliased by \fBgetpol\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Examples:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBget_policy admin\fR
Policy: admin
Maximum password life: 180 days 00:00:00
Minimum password life: 00:00:00
Minimum password length: 6
Minimum number of password character classes: 2
Number of old keys kept: 5
Reference count: 17
kadmin: \fBget_policy -terse\fR
admin admin	15552000	0	6	2	5	17
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Errors:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBKADM5_AUTH_GET\fR (requires the \fBget\fR privilege)
.sp
\fBKADM5_UNK_POLICY\fR (policy does not exist)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist_policies\fR [\fIexpression\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieves all or some policy names.
.I expression
is a shell-style glob
expression that can contain the wild-card characters ?, *, and []'s. All
policy names matching the expression are printed. If no expression is
.RB "provided, all existing policy names are printed. Requires the" " list"
privilege. Aliased by
.BR listpols ,
.BR get_policies ,
and
.BR getpols .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Examples:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBlistpols\fR
test-pol dict-only once-a-min test-pol-nopw
kadmin: \fBlistpols t*\fR
test-pol test-pol-nopw kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBktadd\fR [\fB-k\fR \fIkeytab\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-e\fR
\fIenctype\fR:salt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a principal or all principals matching
.I princ-exp
to a keytab,
randomizing each principal's key in the process.
.sp
\fBktadd\fR requires the \fBinquire\fR and \fBchangepw\fR privileges. An
entry for each of the principal's unique encryption types is added, ignoring
multiple keys with the same encryption type but different
.B salt
types.
If the
.B -k
argument is not specified, the default keytab file,
.BR /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab ,
is used.
.sp
The "\fB-e\fR \fIenctype\fR:salt\fR" option overrides the list of
\fIenctypes\fR given in
.BR krb5.conf (4),
in the
.BR permitted_enctypes
parameter. If "\fB-e\fR \fIenctype\fR:salt\fR" is not used and
\fBpermitted_enctypes\fR is not defined in
.BR krb5.conf (4),
a key for
each
.I enctype
supported by the system on which
.B kadmin
is run will
be created and added to the
.BR keytab .
Restricting the
.I enctypes
of
keys in the
.B keytab
is useful when the system for which keys are being
created does not support the same set of
.I enctypes
as the KDC. Note
that
.B ktadd
modifies the
.I enctype
of the keys in the principal
database as well.
.sp
If the
.B -q
option is specified, less status information is displayed.
Aliased by
.BR xst .
The
.B -glob
option requires the
.BR list
privilege. Also, note that if you use
.B -glob
to create a keytab, you
need to remove
.B /etc/krb5/kadm5.keytab
and create it again if you want
to use
.B "-p */admin"
with
.BR kadmin .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B princ-exp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIprinc-exp\fR follows the same rules described for the
\fBlist_principals\fR command.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBktadd -k /tmp/new-keytab nfs/chicago\fR
Entry for principal nfs/chicago with kvno 2,
encryption type DES-CBC-CRC added to keytab
WRFILE:/tmp/new-keytab.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBktremove\fR [\fB-k\fR \fIkeytab\fR] [\fB-q\fR] \fIprincipal\fR
[\fIkvno\fR | \fBall\fR | \fBold\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes entries for the specified principal from a keytab. Requires no
privileges, since this does not require database access. If
.B all
is
specified, all entries for that principal are removed; if
.B old
is
specified, all entries for that principal except those with the highest kvno
are removed. Otherwise, the value specified is parsed as an integer, and all
entries whose
.B kvno
match that integer are removed. If the \fB-k\fR
argument is not specified, the default keytab file,
.BR /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab ,
is used. If the
.B -q
option is specified,
less status information is displayed. Aliased by \fBktrem\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Example:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBktremove -k /tmp/new-keytab nfs/chicago\fR
Entry for principal nfs/chicago with kvno 2
removed from keytab
WRFILE:/tmp/new-keytab.
kadmin:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Quits
.BR kadmin .
Aliased by
.B exit
and
.BR q .
.RE

.SS "Time Formats"
.sp
.LP
Various commands in
.B kadmin
can take a variety of time formats,
specifying time durations or absolute times. The
.B kadmin
option
variables
.IR maxrenewlife ,
\fImaxlife\fR, and \fIminlife\fR are time
durations, whereas
.I expdate
and
.I pwexpdate
are absolute times.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Examples:
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kadmin: \fBmodprinc -expire "12/31 7pm" jdb\fR
kadmin: \fBmodprinc -maxrenewlife "2 fortnight" jdb\fR
kadmin: \fBmodprinc -pwexpire "this sunday" jdb\fR
kadmin: \fBmodprinc -expire never jdb\fR
kadmin: \fBmodprinc -maxlife "7:00:00pm tomorrow" jdb\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.LP
Note that times which do not have the "ago" specifier default to being
absolute times, unless they appear in a field where a duration is expected.
In that case, the time specifier will be interpreted as relative. Specifying
"ago" in a duration can result in unexpected behavior.
.sp
.LP
The following time formats and units can be combined to specify a time. The
time and date format examples are based on the date and time of July 2,
1999, 1:35:30 p.m.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBTime Format\fR\fBExamples\fR
\fIhh\fR[:\fImm\fR][:\fIss\fR][am/pm/a.m./p.m.]1p.m., 1:35, 1:35:30pm
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBVariable\fR\fBDescription\fR
\fIhh\fRT{
hour (12-hour clock, leading zero permitted but not required)
T}
\fImm\fRminutes
\fIss\fRseconds
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBDate Format\fR\fBExamples\fR
\fImm\fR/\fBdd\fR[/\fIyy\fR]07/02, 07/02/99
\fIyyyy\fR-\fImm\fR-\fBdd\fR1999-07-02
\fBdd\fR-\fImonth\fR-\fIyyyy\fR02-July-1999
\fImonth\fR [,\fIyyyy\fR]Jul 02, July 02,1999
\fBdd\fR \fImonth\fR[ \fIyyyy\fR]02 JULY, 02 july 1999
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBVariable Description\fR
\fBdd\fRday
\fImm\fRmonth
\fIyy\fRT{
year within century (00-38 is 2000 to 2038; 70-99 is 1970 to 1999)
T}
\fIyyyy\fRyear including century
\fImonth\fRlocale's full or abbreviated month name
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBTime Units\fR\fBExamples\fR
[+|- \fI#\fR] year"-2 year"
[+|- \fI#\fR] month"2 months"
[+|- \fI#\fR] fortnight
[+|- \fI#\fR] week
[+|- \fI#\fR] day
[+|- \fI#\fR] hour
[+|- \fI#\fR] minute
[+|- \fI#\fR] min
[+|- \fI#\fR] second
[+|- \fI#\fR] sec
tomorrow
yesterday
today 
now 
this"this year"
last"last saturday"
next"next month"
sunday
monday
tuesday
wednesday
thursday
friday
saturday
never
.TE

.sp
.LP
You can also use the following time modifiers:
.BR first ,
.BR second ,
.BR third ,
\fBfourth\fR, \fBfifth\fR,
.BR sixth ,
.BR seventh ,
.BR eighth ,
.BR ninth ,
.BR tenth ,
.BR eleventh ,
\fBtwelfth\fR, and
.BR ago .
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR kadmin :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAGER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The command to use as a filter for paging output. This can also be used to
specify options. The default is \fBmore\fR(1).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Kerberos principal database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal.ulog
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The update log file for incremental propagation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal.kadm5
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Kerberos administrative database. Contains policy information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal.kadm5.lock
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lock file for the Kerberos administrative database. This file works
backwards from most other lock files (that is,
.B kadmin
will exit with
an error if this file does
.I not
exist).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/kadm5.dict
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dictionary of strings explicitly disallowed as passwords.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/kadm5.acl
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List of principals and their
.B kadmin
administrative privileges.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/kadm5.keytab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Keytab for \fBkadmind\fR principals: \fBkadmin\fR/\fIfqdn\fR,
\fBchangepw\fR/\fIfqdn\fR, and \fBkadmin\fR/\fBchangepw\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkdcu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kpasswd (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR gkadmin (1M),
.BR kadmind (1M),
.BR kdb5_util (1M),
.BR kdb5_ldap_util (1M),
.BR kproplog (1M),
.BR kadm5.acl (4),
\fBkdc.conf\fR(4), \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR kerberos (5),
.BR krb5envvar (5)
.SH HISTORY
.sp
.LP
The
.B kadmin
program was originally written by Tom Yu at MIT, as an
interface to the OpenVision Kerberos administration program.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The
.B kadmin
command is currently incompatible with the MIT
\fBkadmind\fR daemon interface, so you cannot use this command to administer
an MIT-based Kerberos database. However, clients running the Solaris
implementation of Kerberos can still use an MIT-based KDC.
