'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kpropd 1M "11 Jul 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
kpropd \- Kerberos propagation daemon for slave KDCs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/krb5/kpropd\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fItemp_dbfile\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIdbfile\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIkdb_util\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIport_number\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIrealm\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR \fIsrv_tabfile\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIacl_file\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kpropd
command runs on the slave KDC server. It listens for
update requests made by \fBkprop\fR(1M) from the master KDC and periodically
requests incremental updates from the master KDC.
.sp
.LP
When the slave receives a kprop request from the master, \fBkpropd\fR
copies principal data to a temporary text file. Next,
.B kpropd
invokes
.BR kdb5_util (1M)
(unless a different database utility is selected) to
load the text file in database format.
.sp
.LP
.RB "When the slave periodically requests incremental updates," " kpropd"
update its
.B principal.ulog
file with any updates from the master.
.BR kproplog (1M)
can be used to view a summary of the update entry log on
the slave KDC.
.sp
.LP
kpropd is not configured for incremental database propagation by default.
These settings can be changed in the
.BR kdc.conf (4)
file:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsunw_dbprop_enable = [true | false]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables incremental database propagation. Default is
\fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsunw_dbprop_slave_poll = N[s, m, h]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies how often the slave KDC polls for any updates that the master
might have. Default is
.B 2m
(two minutes).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBkiprop/\fI<hostname>\fR@\fI<REALM>\fR principal must exist in the
slave's
.B keytab
file to enable the master to authenticate incremental
propagation requests from the slave. In this syntax,
.I <hostname>
is the
slave KDC's host name and
.I <REALM>
is the realm in which the slave KDC
resides.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Enable debug mode. Default is debug mode disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fItemp_dbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The location of the slave's temporary principal database file. Default is
\fB/var/krb5/from_master\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-F\fR \fIdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The location of the slave's principal database file. Default is
.BR /var/krb5/principal .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIkdb_util\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The location of the Kerberos database utility used for loading principal
databases. Default is \fB/usr/sbin/kdb5_util\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIport_number\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Specifies the port number on which
.B kpropd
will listen. Default is 754
(service name: \fBkrb5_prop\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR \fIrealm\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Specifies from which Kerberos realm kpropd will receive information.
Default is specified in \fB/etc/krb5/krb5.conf\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIsrv_tabfile\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The location of the service table file used to authenticate the
\fBkpropd\fR daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Run the daemon in standalone mode, instead of having
.B inetd
listen for
requests. Default is non-standalone mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIacl_file\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The location of the \fBkpropd\fR's access control list to verify if this
server can run the
.B kpropd
daemon. The file contains a list of
principal name(s) that will be receiving updates. Default is
.BR /etc/krb5/kpropd.acl .
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Kerberos principal database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/krb5/principal.ulog
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The update log file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/krb5/kdc.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
KDC configuration information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/kpropd.acl
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
List of principals of all the KDCs; resides on each slave KDC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/krb5/from_master\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Temporary file used by kpropd before loading this to the principal
database.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkdcu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kdb5_util (1M),
.BR kprop (1M),
.BR kproplog (1M),
\fBkdc.conf\fR(4),
.BR krb5.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kerberos (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B kprop
service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/security/krb5_prop:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Responsibility
for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to
.BR inetd (1M).
Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view
configuration information for this service. The service's status can be
queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
