'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldapclient 1M "14 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ldapclient \- initialize LDAP client machine or output an LDAP client
profile in LDIF format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] init [\fB-a\fR profileName=\fIprofileName\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR domainName=\fIdomain\fR] [\fB-a\fR proxyDN=\fIproxyDN\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR proxyPassword=\fIpassword\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR authenticationMethod=\fIauthenticationMethod\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR enableShadowUpdate=true | false]
     [\fB-a\fR adminDN=\fIadminDN\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR adminPassword=\fIadminPassword\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR certificatePath=\fIpath\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIbindDN\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIbindPassword\fR]
     [\fB-j\fR \fIpasswdFile\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fIpasswdFile\fR]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIadminrPasswdFile\fR] \fILDAP_server\fR[:\fIport_number\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] manual [\fB-a\fR attrName=\fIattrVal\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] mod [\fB-a\fR attrName=\fIattrVal\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] list
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] uninit
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ldapclient\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-q\fR] genprofile \fB-a\fR profileName=\fIprofileName\fR
     [\fB-a\fR attrName=\fIattrVal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldapclient
utility can be used to:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
initialize LDAP client machines
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
restore the network service environment on LDAP clients
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
list the contents of the LDAP client cache in human readable format.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B init
form of the
.B ldapclient
utility is used to initialize an
LDAP client machine, using a profile stored on an LDAP server specified by
.BR LDAP_server .
The LDAP client will use the attributes in the specified
profile to determine the configuration of the LDAP client. Using a
configuration profile allows for easy installation of LDAP client and
propagation of configuration changes to LDAP clients. The
.BR ldap_cachemgr (1M)
utility will update the LDAP client configuration
when its cache expires by reading the profile. For more information on the
configuration profile refer to IETF document \fIA Configuration Schema for
LDAP Based Directory User Agents\fR.
.sp
.LP
The
.B manual
form of the
.B ldapclient
utility is used to initialize
an LDAP client machine manually. The LDAP client will use the attributes
specified on the command line. Any unspecified attributes will be assigned
their default values. At least one server must be specified in the
.B defaultServerList
or the
.B preferredServerList
attributes.The
.B domainName
attribute must be specified if the client's \fBdomainName\fR
is not set.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mod
form of the
.B ldapclient
utility is used to modify the
configuration of an LDAP client machine that was setup manually. This option
modifies only those LDAP client configuration attributes specified on the
command line. The
.B mod
option should only be used on LDAP clients that
were initialized using the
.B manual
option.
.sp
.LP
Regardless of which method is used for initialization, if a client is to be
configured to use a proxy
.BR credentialLevel ,
proxy credentials must be
provided using \fB-a\fR \fBproxyDN=\fIproxyDN\fR and \fB-a\fR
\fBproxyPassword=\fIproxyPassword\fR options. However, if \fB-a\fR
\fBproxyPassword=\fIproxyPassword\fR is not specified, \fBldapclient\fR
will prompt for it. Note that
.I NULL
passwords are not allowed in LDAP.
If a self
.B credentialLevel
is configured, \fBauthenticationMethod\fR
must be
.BR sasl/GSSAPI .
.sp
.LP
Similarily, if a client is to be configured to enable shadow information
update and use a proxy credentialLevel, administrator credentials must be
provided using \fB-a\fR \fBadminDN=\fIadminDN\fR and \fB-a\fR
\fBadminPassword=\fIadminPassword\fR. However, the shadow information
update does not need the administrator credentials if a self
.B credentialLevel
is configured.
.sp
.LP
If any file is modified during installation, it will be backed up to
.BR /var/ldap/restore .
The files that are typically modified during
initialization are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /etc/defaultdomain
(if it exists)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /var/yp/binding/`domainname`
(for a NIS(YP) client)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /var/nis/NIS_COLD_START
(for a NIS+ client)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_file
(for an existing LDAP client)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_cred
(for an existing LDAP client)
.RE
.sp
.LP
.B ldapclient
does not set up a client to resolve hostnames using DNS. It
simply copies
.B /etc/nsswitch.ldap
to
.BR /etc/nsswitch.conf .
If you
prefer to use DNS for host resolution, please refer to the DNS documentation
for information on setting up DNS. See
.BR resolv.conf (4).
If you want to
use
.B sasl/GSSAPI
as the authentication method, you have to use DNS for
.B hosts
and
.B ipnodes
resolution.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list
form of the
.B ldapclient
utility is used to list the LDAP
client configuration. The output will be human readable. LDAP configuration
files are not guaranteed to be human readable. Note that for security reason,
the values for adminDN and adminPassword will not be displayed.
.sp
.LP
The
.B uninit
form of the
.B ldapclient
utility is used to
uninitialize the network service environment, restoring it to the state it
was in prior to the last execution of
.B ldapclient
using
.B init
or
.BR manual .
The restoration will succeed only if the machine was
initialized with the
.B init
or
.B manual
form of
.BR ldapclient ,
as
it uses the backup files created by these options.
.sp
.LP
The
.B genprofile
option is used to write an LDIF formatted configuration
profile based on the attributes specified on the command line to standard
output. This profile can then be loaded into an LDAP server to be used as the
client profile, which can be downloaded by means of the \fBldapclient init\fR
command. Loading the LDIF formatted profile to the directory server can be
done through
.BR ldapadd (1),
or through any server specific import tool.
Note that the attributes
.BR proxyDN ,
.BR proxyPassword ,
.BR certificatePath ,
.BR domainName ,
.BR enableShadowUpdate ,
.BR adminDN ,
and
.B adminPassword
are not part of the configuration
profile and thus are not permitted.
.sp
.LP
You must have superuser privileges to run the
.B ldapclient
command,
except with the
.B genprofile
option.
.sp
.LP
To access the information stored in the directory, clients can either
authenticate to the directory, or use an unauthenticated connection. The LDAP
client is configured to have a credential level of either
.B anonymous
or
.BR proxy .
In the first case, the client does not authenticate to the
directory. In the second case, client authenticates to the directory using a
proxy identity for read access, and using a administrator identity for write
access if
.B enableShadowUpdate
is configured. In the third case, client
authenticates to the directory using a Kerberos principal that is mapped to
an LDAP identity by the LDAP server. Refer to the chapter on implementing
security in the \fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services
(DNS, NIS, and LDAP)\fR or your appropriate directory server documentation
for identity mapping details.
.sp
.LP
If a client is configured to use an identity, you can configure which
authentication method the client will use. The LDAP client supports the
following authentication methods:
.br
.in +2
.B none
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B simple
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/CRAM-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/DIGEST-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/GSSAPI
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:simple
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:sasl/CRAM-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:sasl/DIGEST-MD5
.in -2
.sp
.LP
Note that some directory servers may not support all of these authentication
methods. For
.BR simple ,
be aware that the bind password will be sent in
the clear to the LDAP server. For those authentication methods using TLS
(transport layer security), the entire session is encrypted. You will need to
install the appropriate certificate databases to use TLS.
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.LP
The following commands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B init
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Initialize client from a profile on a server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B manual
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Manually initialize client with the specified attribute values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mod
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify attribute values in the configuration file after a manual
initialization of the client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write the contents of the LDAP client cache to standard output in human
readable form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uninit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uninitialize an LDAP client, assuming that
.B ldapclient
was used to
initialize the client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B genprofile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generate a configuration profile in LDIF format that can then be stored in
the directory for clients to use, with the
.B init
form of this command.
.RE

.SS "Attributes"
.sp
.LP
The following attributes are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adminDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the Bind Distinguished Name for the administrator identity that is
used for shadow information update. This option is required if the credential
level is
.BR proxy ,
and
.B enableShadowUpdate
is set to
.BR true .
There is no default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adminPassword
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the administrator password. This option is required if the
credential level is
.BR proxy ,
and
.B enableShadowUpdate
is set to
.BR true .
There is no default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B attributeMap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a mapping from an attribute defined by a service to an attribute in
an alternative schema. This can be used to change the default schema used for
a given service. The syntax of
.B attributeMap
is defined in the profile
IETF draft. This option can be specified multiple times. The default value
for all services is
.IR NULL .
In the example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
attributeMap: passwd:uid=employeeNumber
.fi
.in -2
.sp

the LDAP client would use the LDAP attribute
.B employeeNumber
rather
than
.B uid
for the
.B passwd
service. This is a multivalued
attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B authenticationMethod
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the default authentication method used by all services unless
overridden by the
.B serviceAuthenticationMethod
attribute. Multiple
values can be specified by using a semicolon-separated list. The default
value is
.BR none .
For those services that use
.B credentialLevel
and
.B credentialLevel
is
.BR anonymous ,
this attribute is ignored. Services
such as
.B pam_ldap
will use this attribute, even if \fBcredentialLevel\fR
is anonymous. The supported authentication methods are described above. If
the authenticationMethod is
.BR sasl/GSSAPI ,
the
.B hosts
and
.B ipnodes
of
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
must be configured with DNS
support, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
hosts: dns files
ipnodes: dns files
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bindTimeLimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum time in seconds that a client should spend performing a bind
operation. Set this to a positive integer. The default value is 30.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B certificatePath
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The certificate path for the location of the certificate database. The value
is the path where security database files reside. This is used for TLS
support, which is specified in the
.B authenticationMethod
and
.B serviceAuthenticationMethod
attributes. The default is
.BR /var/ldap .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B credentialLevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the credential level the client should use to contact the directory.
The credential levels supported are either
.B anonymous
or
.BR proxy .
If
a
.B proxy
credential level is specified, then the
.B authenticationMethod
attribute must be specified to determine the
authentication mechanism. Also, if the credential level is
.B proxy
and at
least one of the authentication methods require a bind DN, the \fBproxyDN\fR
and
.B proxyPassword
attribute values must be set. In addition, if
.B enableShadowUpdate
is set to
.BR true ,
the
.B adminDN
and
.B adminPassword
values must be set. If a self credential level is
specified, the
.B authenticationMethod
must be
.BR sasl/GSSAPI .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B defaultSearchBase
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the default search base DN. There is no default. The
.B serviceSearchDescriptor
attribute can be used to override the
.B defaultSearchBase
for given services.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B defaultSearchScope=one | sub
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the default search scope for the client's search operations. This
default can be overridden for a given service by specifying a
.BR serviceSearchDescriptor .
The default is one level search.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B defaultServerList
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A space separated list of server names or server addresses, either IPv4 or
IPv6. If you specify server names, be sure that the LDAP client can resolve
the name without the LDAP name service. You must resolve the LDAP servers'
names by using either
.B files
or
.BR dns .
If the LDAP server name
cannot be resolved, your naming service will fail.
.sp
The port number is optional. If not specified, the default LDAP server port
number 389 is used, except when TLS is specified in the authentication
method. In this case, the default LDAP server port number is 636.
.sp
The format to specify the port number for an IPv6 address is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[ipv6_addr]:port
.fi
.in -2

To specify the port number for an IPv4 address, use the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ipv4_addr:port
.fi
.in -2

If the host name is specified, use the format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
host_name:port
.fi
.in -2

If you use TLS, the LDAP server's hostname must match the hostname in the
TLS certificate. Typically, the hostname in the TLS certificate is a fully
qualified domain name. With TLS, the LDAP server host addresses must resolve
to the hostnames in the TLS certificate. You must use
.B files
or
.B dns
to resolve the host address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B domainName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the DNS domain name. This becomes the default domain for the
machine. The default is the current domain name. This attribute is only used
in client initialization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enableShadowUpdate=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify whether the client is allowed to update shadow information. If set
to
.B true
and the credential level is
.BR proxy ,
.B adminDN
and
.B adminPassword
must be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B followReferrals=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the referral setting. A setting of true implies that referrals will
be automatically followed and false would result in referrals not being
followed. The default is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B objectclassMap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a mapping from an
.B objectclass
defined by a service to an
.B objectclass
in an alternative schema. This can be used to change the
default schema used for a given service. The syntax of \fBobjectclassMap\fR
is defined in the profile IETF draft. This option can be specified multiple
times. The default value for all services is
.IR NULL .
In the example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
objectclassMap=passwd:posixAccount=unixAccount
.fi
.in -2
.sp

the LDAP client would use the LDAP
.B objectclass
of
.BR unixAccount
rather than the
.B posixAccount
for the
.B passwd
service. This is a
multivalued attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B preferredServerList
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the space separated list of server names or server addresses, either
IPv4 or IPv6, to be contacted before servers specified by the
.B defaultServerList
attribute. If you specify server names, be sure that
the LDAP client can resolve the name without the LDAP name service. You must
resolve the LDAP servers' names by using either
.B files
or
.BR dns .
If
the LDAP server name cannot be resolved, your naming service will fail.
.sp
The port number is optional. If not specified, the default LDAP server port
number 389 is used, except when TLS is specified in the authentication
method. In this case, the default LDAP server port number is 636.
.sp
The format to specify the port number for an IPv6 address is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[ipv6_addr]:port
.fi
.in -2

To specify the port number for an IPv4 address, use the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ipv4_addr:port
.fi
.in -2

If the host name is specified, use the format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
host_name:port
.fi
.in -2

If you use TLS, the LDAP server's hostname must match the hostname in the
TLS certificate. Typically, the hostname in the TLS certificate is a fully
qualified domain name. With TLS, the LDAP server host addresses must resolve
to the hostnames in the TLS certificate. You must use
.B files
or
.B dns
to resolve the host address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B profileName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the profile name. For
.BR "ldapclient init" ,
this attribute is the
name of an existing profile which may be downloaded periodically depending on
the value of the
.B profileTTL
attribute. For
.BR "ldapclient genprofile" ,
this is the name of the profile to be generated. The default value is
.BR default .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B profileTTL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the TTL value in seconds for the client information. This is only
relevant if the machine was initialized with a client profile. If you do not
want \fBldap_cachemgr\fR(1M) to attempt to refresh the LDAP client
configuration from the LDAP server, set
.B profileTTL
to 0 (zero). Valid
values are either zero 0 (for no expiration) or a positive integer in
seconds. The default value is 12 hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B proxyDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the Bind Distinguished Name for the proxy identity. This option is
required if the credential level is
.BR proxy ,
and at least one of the
authentication methods requires a bind DN. There is no default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B proxyPassword
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify client proxy password. This option is required if the credential
level is
.BR proxy ,
and at least one of the authentication methods requires
a bind DN. There is no default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B searchTimeLimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify maximum number of seconds allowed for an LDAP search operation. The
default is 30 seconds. The server may have its own search time limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B serviceAuthenticationMethod
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify authentication methods to be used by a service in the form
\fIservicename\fR:\fBauthenticationmethod\fR, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pam_ldap:tls:simple
.fi
.in -2

For multiple authentication methods, use a semicolon-separated list. The
default value is no service authentication methods, in which case, each
service would default to the
.B authenticationMethod
value. The supported
authentications are described above.
.sp
Three services support this feature:
.BR passwd-cmd ,
.BR keyserv ,
and
.BR pam_ldap .
The
.B passwd-cmd
service is used to define the
authentication method to be used by
.BR passwd (1)
to change the user's
password and other attributes. The
.B keyserv
service is used to identify
the authentication method to be used by the
.BR chkey (1)
and
.BR newkey (1M)
utilities. The
.B pam_ldap
service defines the
authentication method to be used for authenticating users when
.BR pam_ldap (5)
is configured. If this attribute is not set for any of
these services, the
.B authenticationMethod
attribute is used to define
the authentication method. This is a multivalued attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B serviceCredentialLevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify credential level to be used by a service. Multiple values can be
specified in a space-separated list. The default value for all services is
.IR NULL .
The supported credential levels are:
.B anonymous
or
.BR proxy .
At present, no service uses this attribute. This is a
multivalued attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B serviceSearchDescriptor
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the default base DN for LDAP searches for a given service. The
format of the descriptors also allow overriding the default search scope and
search filter for each service. The syntax of \fBserviceSearchDescriptor\fR
is defined in the profile IETF draft. The default value for all services is
.IR NULL .
This is a multivalued attribute. In the example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
serviceSearchDescriptor=passwd:ou=people,dc=a1,dc=acme,dc=com?one
.fi
.in -2
.sp

the LDAP client would do a one level search in
.B ou=people,dc=a1,dc=acme,dc=com
rather than
\fBou=people,\fIdefaultSearchBase\fR for the \fBpasswd\fR service.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fBattrName=\fIattrValue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify
.B attrName
and its value. See
.B SYNOPSIS
for a complete list
of possible attribute names and values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I bindDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an entry that has read permission for the requested database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.I passwdFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file containing the password for the bind DN or the password for
the SSL client's key database. To protect the password, use this option in
scripts and place the password in a secure file. This option is mutually
exclusive of the
.B -w
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Quiet mode. No output is generated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I bindPassword
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password to be used for authenticating the bind DN. If this parameter is
missing, the command will prompt for a password.
.B NULL
passwords are not
supported in LDAP.
.sp
When you use
.B -w
.I bindPassword
to specify the password to be used
for authentication, the password is visible to other users of the system by
means of the
.B ps
command, in script files, or in shell history.
.sp
If you supply "\fB-\fR" (hyphen) as a password, the command will prompt for
a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.I passwdFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file containing the password for the proxy DN. To protect the
password, use this option in scripts and place the password in a secure file.
This option is mutually exclusive of the
.B -a
.I proxyPassword
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I adminrPasswdFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file containing the password for the
.BR adminDN .
To protect the
password, use this option in scripts and place the password in a secure file.
This option is mutually exclusive of the
.B -a
.I adminPassword
option.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I LDAP_server
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An address or a name for the LDAP server from which the profile will be
loaded. The current naming service specified in the
.B nsswitch.conf
file
is used. Once the profile is loaded, the
.B preferredServerList
and
.B defaultServerList
specified in the profile are used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Setting Up a Client By Using the Default Profile Stored on a
Specified LDAP Server
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to set up a client using the default profile
stored on the specified LDAP server. This command will only be successful if
either the credential level in the profile is set to
.B anonymous
or the
authentication method is set to
.BR none .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient init 172.16.100.1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Setting Up a Client By Using the
.B simple
Profile Stored
on a Specified LDAP Server
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to set up a client using the
.BR simple
profile stored on the specified LDAP server. The domainname is set to
.B xyz.mycompany.com
and the proxyPassword is
.BR secret .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient init -a profileName=simple \e
-a domainName=xyz.mycompany.com \e
-a proxyDN=cn=proxyagent,ou=profile,dc=xyz,dc=mycompany,dc=com \e
-a proxyPassword=secret '['fe80::a00:20ff:fea3:388']':386\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Setting Up a Client Using Only One Server
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to set up a client using only one server.
The authentication method is set to
.BR none ,
and the search base is
.BR dc=mycompany,dc=com .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient manual -a authenticationMethod=none \e
-a defaultSearchBase=dc=mycompany,dc=com \e
-a defaultServerList=172.16.100.1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Setting Up a Client Using Only One Server That Does Not
Follow Referrals
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to set up a client using only one server.
The credential level is set to
.BR proxy .
The authentication method of is
.BR sasl/CRAM-MD5 ,
with the option not to follow referrals. The domain name
is
.BR xyz.mycompany.com ,
and the LDAP server is running on port number 386
at IP address
.BR 172.16.100.1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient manual \e
-a credentialLevel=proxy \e
-a authenticationMethod=sasl/CRAM-MD5 \e
-a proxyPassword=secret \e
-a proxyDN=cn=proxyagent,ou=profile,dc=xyz,dc=mycompany,dc=com \e
-a defaultSearchBase=dc=xyz,dc=mycompany,dc=com \e
-a domainName=xyz.mycompany.com \e
-a followReferrals=false \e
-a defaultServerList=172.16.100.1:386\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Using
.B genprofile
to Set Only the
.B defaultSearchBase
and the Server Addresses
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B genprofile
command to set
the
.B defaultSearchBase
and the server addresses.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient genprofile -a profileName=myprofile \e
-a defaultSearchBase=dc=eng,dc=sun,dc=com \e
-a "defaultServerList=172.16.100.1 172.16.234.15:386" \e
> myprofile.ldif\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Creating a Profile on IPv6 servers
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a profile on IPv6 servers

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient genprofile -a profileName=eng \e
-a credentialLevel=proxy \e
-a authenticationMethod=sasl/DIGEST-MD5 \e
-a defaultSearchBase=dc=eng,dc=acme,dc=com \e
-a "serviceSearchDescriptor=passwd:ou=people,dc=a1,dc=acme,dc=com?one"\e
-a preferredServerList= '['fe80::a00:20ff:fea3:388']' \e
-a "defaultServerList='['fec0::111:a00:20ff:fea3:edcf']' \e
    '['fec0::111:a00:20ff:feb5:e41']'" > eng.ldif\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Creating a Profile That Overrides Every Default Value
.sp
.LP
The following example shows a profile that overrides every default value.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBldapclient genprofile -a profileName=eng \e
-a credentialLevel=proxy -a authenticationMethod=sasl/DIGEST-MD5 \e
-a bindTimeLimit=20 \e
-a defaultSearchBase=dc=eng,dc=acme,dc=com \e
-a "serviceSearchDescriptor=passwd:ou=people,dc=a1,dc=acme,dc=com?one"\e
-a serviceAuthenticationMethod=pam_ldap:tls:simple \e
-a defaultSearchScope=sub \e
-a attributeMap=passwd:uid=employeeNumber \e
-a objectclassMap=passwd:posixAccount=unixAccount \e
-a followReferrals=false -a profileTTL=6000 \e
-a preferredServerList=172.16.100.30 -a searchTimeLimit=30 \e
-a "defaultServerList=172.16.200.1 172.16.100.1 192.168.5.6" > eng.ldif\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The command successfully executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred. An error message is output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B proxyDN
and
.B proxyPassword
attributes are required, but they are
not provided.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_cred
.ad
.br
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contain the LDAP configuration of the client. These files are not to be
modified manually. Their content is not guaranteed to be human readable. Use
.B ldapclient
to update them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/defaultdomain
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System default domain name, matching the domain name of the data in the LDAP
servers. See
.BR defaultdomain (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration file for the name-service switch. See
.BR nsswitch.conf (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nsswitch.ldap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sample configuration file for the name-service switch configured with LDAP
and files.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chkey (1),
.BR ldap (1),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldaplist (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR idsconfig (1M),
.BR ldapaddent (1M),
.BR ldap_cachemgr (1M),
.BR suninstall (1M),
.BR defaultdomain (4),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR resolv.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH CAUTION
.sp
.LP
Currently
.B StartTLS
is not supported by
.BR libldap.so.5 ,
therefore
the port number provided refers to the port used during a TLS open, rather
than the port used as part of a
.B StartTLS
sequence. To avoid timeout
delays, mixed use of TLS and non-TLS authentication mechanisms is not
recommended.
.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-h foo:1000 -a authenticationMethod=tls:simple
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.or:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
defaultServerList= foo:1000
authenticationMethod= tls:simple
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The preceding refers to a raw TLS open on host
.B foo
port 1000, not an
open, StartTLS sequence on an unsecured port 1000. If port 1000 is unsecured
the connection will not be made.
.sp
.LP
As a second example, the following will incur a significant timeout delay
while attempting the connection to
.B foo:636
with an unsecured bind.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
defaultServerList= foo:636 foo:389
authenticationMethod= simple
.fi
.in -2
.sp

