'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldmad 1M "8 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ldmad \- Logical Domains Agents daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ldoms/ldmad\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldmad
daemon is part of the framework that enables Logical Domain
agents to run on a Logical Domain. A Logical  Domain agent is a component
that interacts with the control domain for providing features or
information.
.sp
.LP
.B ldmad
is responsible for running agents on a Logical Domain and must
be enabled to ensure proper functionality of all features provided by the
domain manager on the control  domain. It is started at boot time and has no
configuration options.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWldomu
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR syslog.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B ldmad
uses
.BR syslog "(3C) to report status and error messages. All"
of the messages are logged with the
.B LOG_DAEMON
facility. Error
messages are logged with the
.B LOG_ERR
and
.B LOG_NOTICE
priorities,
and informational messages are logged with the
.B LOG_INFO
priority. The
default entries in the
.B /etc/syslog.conf
file log all of the
.B ldmad
error messages to the
.B /var/adm/messages
log.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldmad
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/ldoms/agents:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart can be performed using
.BR svcadm "(1M). The service's"
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
