'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH listen 1M "3 Apr 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
listen \- network listener daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/saf/listen\fR [\fB-m\fR \fIdevstem\fR] \fInet_spec\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B listen
process ``listens'' to a network for service requests,
accepts requests when they arrive, and invokes servers in response to those
service requests. The network listener process may be used with any
connection-oriented network (more precisely, with any connection-oriented
transport provider) that conforms to the Transport Layer Interface (TLI)
Specification.
.sp
.LP
The listener internally generates a pathname for the minor device for each
connection; it is this pathname that is used in the
.B utmpx
entry for a
service, if one is created. By default, this pathname is the concatenation
of the prefix
.BI /dev/ netspec
with the decimal representation of
the minor device number. In either case, the representation of the minor
device number will be at least two digits (for example, 05 or 27), or longer
when it is necessary to accommodate minor device numbers larger than 99.
.SH SERVER INVOCATION
.sp
.LP
When a connection indication is received, the listener creates a new
transport endpoint and accepts the connection on that endpoint. Before
giving the file descriptor for this new connection to the server, any
designated STREAMS modules are pushed and the configuration script is
executed, (if one exists). This file descriptor is appropriate for use with
either TLI (see
.BR t_sync (3NSL)
) or the sockets interface library.
.sp
.LP
By default, a new instance of the server is invoked for each connection.
When the server is invoked, file descriptor 0 refers to the transport
endpoint, and is open for reading and writing. File descriptors 1 and 2 are
copies of file descriptor 0; no other file descriptors are open. The service
is invoked with the user and group IDs of the user name under which the
service was registered with the listener, and with the current directory set
to the HOME directory of that user.
.sp
.LP
Alternatively, a service may be registered so that the listener will pass
connections to a standing server process through a FIFO or a named stream,
instead of invoking the server anew for each connection. In this case, the
connection is passed in the form of a file descriptor that refers to the new
transport endpoint. Before the file descriptor is sent to the server, the
listener interprets any configuration script registered for that service
using
.BR doconfig (3NSL),
although \fBdoconfig\fR is invoked with both the
.B NORUN
and
.B NOASSIGN
flags. The server receives the file
descriptor for the connection in a
.B strrecvfd
structure using an
.BR "I_RECVFD ioctl" (2).
.sp
.LP
For more details about the listener and its administration, see
.BR nlsadmin (1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m devstem
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The listener will use
.I devstem
as the prefix for the pathname.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/saf/\fIpmtag\fB/\fI*\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nlsadmin (1M),
.BR pmadm (1M),
.BR sac (1M),
.BR sacadm (1M),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR doconfig (3NSL),
.BR nlsgetcall (3NSL),
.BR nlsprovider (3NSL),
.BR t_sync (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When passing a connection to a standing server, the user and group IDs
contained in the
.B strrecvfd
structure will be those for the listener
(that is, they will both be 0); the user name under which the service was
registered with the listener is not reflected in these IDs.
.sp
.LP
When operating multiple instances of the listener on a single transport
provider, there is a potential race condition in the binding of addresses
during initialization of the listeners, if any of their services have
dynamically assigned addresses. This condition would appear as an inability
of the listener to bind a static-address service to its otherwise valid
address, and would result from a dynamic-address service having been bound
to that address by a different instance of the listener.
