'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH logins 1M "6 Sep 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
logins \- list user and system login information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/logins\fR [\fB-admopstux\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgroup.\|.\|.\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlogin_name.\|.\|.\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This command displays information on user and system logins known to the
system. Contents of the output is controlled by the command options and can
include the following: user or system login, user id number, \fBpasswd\fR
account field value (user name or other information), primary group name,
primary group id, multiple group names, multiple group ids, home directory,
login shell, and four password aging parameters. The default information is
the following: login id, user id, primary group name, primary group id and
the account field value. Output is sorted by user id, system logins,
followed by user logins.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Options may be used together. If so, any login that matches any criteria
are displayed.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Add two password expiration fields to the display. The fields show how many
days a password can remain unused before it automatically becomes inactive,
and the date that the password expires.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects logins with duplicate uids.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-g\fR \fIgroup\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects all users belonging to
.BR group ,
sorted by login. Multiple
groups can be specified as a comma-separated list. When the
.B -l
and
\fB-g\fR options are combined, a user is only listed once, even if the user
belongs to more than one of the selected groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlogin_name.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects the requested login. Multiple logins can be specified as a
comma-separated list. Depending on the nameservice lookup types set in
\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR, the information can come from the
\fB/etc/passwd\fR and \fB/etc/shadow\fR files and other nameservices. When
the
.B -l
and
.B -g
options are combined, a user is only listed once,
even if the user belongs to more than one of the selected groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays multiple group membership information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Formats output into one line of colon-separated fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects logins with no passwords.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects all system logins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Sorts output by login instead of by uid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects all user logins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Prints an extended set of information about each selected user. The
extended information includes home directory, login shell and password aging
information, each displayed on a separate line. The password information
currently consists of password status:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NP
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account has no password
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LK
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account is locked for
.B UNIX
authentication
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NL
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account is a no login account
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PS
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account probably has a valid password
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UN
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account password status is unknown. That is, it is not a recognizable
hashed password or any of the above entries. See \fBcrypt\fR(3C) for valid
password hashes.
.RE

If the login is passworded, status is followed by the date the password was
last changed, the number of days required between changes, and the number of
days allowed before a change is required. The password aging information
shows the time interval that the user receives a password expiration warning
message (when logging on) before the password expires.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
