'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lpforms 1M "3 Apr 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
lpforms \- administer forms used with the LP print service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlpforms\fR \fB-f\fR \fIform-name\fR \fIoption\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlpforms\fR \fB-f\fR \fIform-name\fR \fB-A\fR \fIalert-type\fR [\fB-P\fR \fIpaper-name\fR [\fB-d\fR]]
     [\fB-Q\fR \fIrequests\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIminutes\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lpforms
command administers the use of preprinted forms, such as
company letterhead paper, with the LP print service. A form is specified by
its
.IR form-name .
Users may specify a form when submitting a print request
(see
.BR lp (1)).
The argument
.B all
can be used instead of
.I form-name
with either of  the command lines shown above. The first
command line allows the administrator to add, change, and delete forms, to
list the attributes of an existing form, and to allow and deny users access
to particular forms. The second command line is used to establish the method
by which the administrator is alerted that the form
.I form-name
must be
mounted on a printer.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I form-name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify a form.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The first form of
.B lpforms
requires that one of the following
\fIoption\fRs (\fB\(mi\fR,
.BR -l ,
.BR -F ,
.BR -x )
must be used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I pathname
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
To add or change form
.IR form-name ,
as specified by the information in
.IR pathname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
To add or change form
.IR form-name ,
as specified by the information from
standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
To list the attributes of form
.IR form-name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
To delete form
.I form-name
(this option must be used separately; it may
not be used with any other option).
.RE

.sp
.LP
.RB "The second form of the " lpforms " command requires the  " -A 
.I alert-type
option. The other options are optional.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.I alert-type
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Defines an alert to mount the form when there are queued jobs which need
it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I paper-name
[
.BR -d " ]"
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Specify the paper name when creating the form. If
.B -d
is specified,
this paper is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.I requests
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
An alert will be sent when a certain number of print requests that need the
form are waiting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -W
.I minutes
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
An alert will be sent at intervals specified by minutes.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Adding or Changing a Form"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -F
.I pathname
option is used to  add a new form,
.IR form-name ,
to the LP print service, or to change the attributes of an
existing form. The form description is taken from
.I pathname
if the
.B -F
option is given, or from the standard input if the
.B \(mi
option
is used. One of these two options must be used to define or change a form.
.sp
.LP
.I pathname
is the path name of a file that contains  all or any subset
of the following information about the form.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBPage length\fR: \fIscaled-decimal-number1\fR
\fBPage width\fR: \fIscaled-decimal-number2\fR
\fBNumber of pages\fR: \fIinteger\fR
\fBLine pitch\fR: \fIscaled-decimal-number3\fR
\fBCharacter pitch\fR: \fIscaled-decimal-number4\fR
\fBCharacter set choice\fR: \fIcharacter-set/print-wheel\fR [\fBmandatory\fR]
\fBRibbon color\fR: \fIribbon-color\fR
\fBComment:\fR
\fIcomment\fR
\fBAlignment pattern\fR: [\fIcontent-type\fR]
\fIcontent\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The term ``scaled-decimal-number'' refers to a non-negative number used to
indicate a unit of size. The type of unit is shown by a ``trailing'' letter
attached to the number. Three types of scaled decimal numbers can be used
with the LP print service: numbers that show sizes in centimeters (marked
with a trailing
.BR c );
numbers that show sizes in inches (marked with a
trailing
.BR i );
and numbers that show sizes in units appropriate to use
(without a trailing letter); lines, characters, lines per inch, or characters
per inch.
.sp
.LP
Except for the last two lines, the above lines may appear in any order. The
.B Comment:
and
.I comment
items must appear in consecutive order but
may appear before the other items, and the
.B "Alignment pattern:"
and the
.I content
items must appear in consecutive order at the end of the file.
Also, the
.I comment
item may not contain a line that begins with any of
the key phrases above, unless the key phrase is preceded with a
.B >
sign.
Any leading > sign found in the
.I comment
will be removed when the
comment is displayed. There is no case distinction among the key phrases.
.sp
.LP
When this command is issued, the form specified by
.I form-name
is added
to the list of forms. If the form already exists, its description is changed
to reflect the new information. Once added, a form is available for use in a
print request, except where access to the form has been restricted, as
described under the
.B -u
option. A form may also be allowed to be used on
certain printers only.
.sp
.LP
A description of each form attribute is below:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Page length
and
.BR "Page Width"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Before printing the content of a print request needing this form, the
generic interface program provided with  the LP print service will initialize
the physical printer to handle pages
.I scaled-decimal-number1
long, and
.I scaled-decimal-number2
wide using the printer type as a key into the
.BR terminfo (4)
database. The page length and page width will also be
passed, if possible, to each filter used in a request needing this form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Number of pages
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Each time the alignment pattern is printed, the LP print service will
attempt to truncate the
.I content
to a single form by, if possible,
passing to each filter the page subset of 1-\fIinteger\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Line pitch
and
.BR "Character pitch"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Before printing the content of a print request needing this form, the
interface program provided with the  LP print service will initialize the
physical printer to handle these pitches, using the printer type as a key
into the
.BR terminfo (4)
database.  Also, the pitches will be passed, if
possible, to each filter used in a request needing this form.
.I scaled-decimal-number3
is in lines-per-centimeter if a
.B c
is
appended, and lines-per-inch otherwise; similarly,
.I scaled-decimal-number4
is in characters-per-centimeter if a
.B c
is
appended, and characters-per-inch otherwise. The character pitch can also be
given as
.B elite
(12 characters-per-inch),
.B pica
(10
characters-per-inch), or
.B compressed
(as many characters-per-inch as
possible).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Character set choice
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When the LP print service alerts an administrator to mount this form, it
will also mention that the print wheel
.I print-wheel
should be used on
those printers that take print wheels. If printing with this form is to be
done on a printer that has selectable or loadable character sets instead of
print wheels, the interface programs provided with the  LP print service will
automatically select or load the correct character set. If
.B mandatory
is
appended, a user is not allowed to select a different character set for use
with the form; otherwise, the character set or print wheel named is a
suggestion and a default only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Ribbon color
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When the LP print service alerts an administrator to mount this form, it
will also mention that the color of the ribbon should be
.IR ribbon-color .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Comment
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LP print service will display the
.I comment
unaltered when a user
asks about this form  (see
.BR lpstat (1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Alignment pattern
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When mounting this form,  an administrator can ask for the
.I content
to
be printed repeatedly, as an aid in correctly positioning the preprinted
form. The optional
.I content-type
defines the type of printer for which
.I content
had been generated. If
.I content-type
is not given,
.B simple
is assumed. Note that the
.I content
is stored as given, and
will be readable only by the user
.BR lp .
.RE

.sp
.LP
When an existing form is changed with this command, items missing in the new
information are left as they were. When a new form is added with this
command, missing items will get the following defaults:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Page Length: \fB66\fR
Page Width: \fB80\fR
Number of Pages: \fB1\fR
Line Pitch: \fB6\fR
Character Pitch: \fB10\fR
Character Set Choice: \fBany\fR
Ribbon Color: \fBany\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Deleting a Form"
.sp
.LP
LP print service" The \fB-x\fR option is used to  delete the form
.I form-name
from the LP  print service.
.SS "Listing Form Attributes"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -l
option is used to  list the attributes of the existing form
.IR form-name .
The attributes listed are those described under \fBAdding and Changing a Form,\fR above. Because of the potentially sensitive nature of
the alignment pattern, only the administrator  can examine the form with this
command. Other people may use the
.BR lpstat (1)
command to examine the
non-sensitive part of the form description.
.SS "Allowing and Denying Access to a Form"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -u
option, followed by the argument
.BI allow: login-ID-list
or \fB-u\fR
.BI deny: login-ID-list
lets you determine which users will be allowed
to specify a particular form with a print request. This option can be used
with the
.B -F
or
.B \(mi
option, each of which is described above
under
.BR "Adding or Changing a Form" .
.sp
.LP
The
.I login-ID-list
argument may include any or all of the following
constructs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I login-ID
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A user on any system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIsystem_name\fB!\fIlogin-ID\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A user on system
.IR system_name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB system_name !all
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
All users on system
.IR system_name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI all! login-ID
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A user on all systems
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
All users on all systems
.RE

.sp
.LP
The LP print service keeps  two lists of users for each form: an
``allow-list'' of people allowed to use the form, and a ``deny-list'' of
people that may not use the form. With the
.B "-u allow"
option,
the users listed are added to the allow-list and removed from the deny-list.
With the
.B "-u deny"
option, the users listed are  added to the
deny-list and removed from the allow-list. (Both forms of the
.B -u
option
can be run together  with the
.B -F
or the
.B \(mi
option.)
.sp
.LP
If the allow-list is not empty,  only the users in the list are allowed
access to the form, regardless of the content of the deny-list. If the
allow-list is empty but the deny-list is not, the users in the deny-list may
not use the form, (but all others may use it). All users can be denied access
to a form  by specifying
.BR "-f deny:all" .
All users can be
allowed access to a form  by specifying
.BR "-f allow:all" .
(This
is the default.)
.SS "Setting an Alert to Mount a Form"
.sp
.LP
The \fB-f\fR
.I form-name
option is used with the \fB-A\fR
.I alert-type
option to define an alert to mount the form when there are
queued jobs which need it. If this option is not used to arrange alerting for
a form, no alert will be sent for that form.
.sp
.LP
The method by which the alert is sent depends on the value of the
.I alert-type
argument specified with the
.B -A
option. The
.I alert-types
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mail
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Send the alert message using the
.B mail
command to the administrator.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B write
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Write the message, using the
.B write
command, to the terminal on which
the administrator is logged in. If the administrator is logged in on several
terminals, one is arbitrarily chosen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quiet
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Do not send messages for the current condition. An administrator can use
this option to temporarily stop receiving further messages about a known
problem. Once the form
.I form-name
has been mounted and subsequently
unmounted, messages will again be sent when the number of print requests
reaches the threshold specified by the
.B -Q
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B showfault
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Attempt to execute a form alert handler on each system that has a print job
for that form in the queue.  The fault handler is
.BR /etc/lp/alerts/form .
It is invoked with three parameters:
.IR form_name ,
.BR date ,
.IR file_name .
.I file_name
is the name of a file containing the form
alert message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B none
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Do not send messages until the
.B -A
option is given again with a
different
.I alert-type
(other than
.BR quiet ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I shell-command
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Run the
.I shell-command
each time the alert needs to be sent. The shell
command should expect the message in standard input. If there are blank
spaces embedded in the command, enclose the command in quotes. Note that the
.B mail
and
.B write
values for this option are equivalent to the
values
.B mail
.I login-ID
and
.B write
.I login-ID
respectively, where
.I login-ID
is the current name for the administrator.
This will be the login name of the person submitting this command unless he
or she has used the
.B su
command to change to another login-ID. If the
.B su
command has been used  to change the user ID, then the
.I user-name
for the new ID is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Display the type of the alert for the form on standard output. No change is
made to the alert.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The message sent appears as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
The form \fIform-name\fR needs to be mounted
on the printer(s):\fIprinter\fR (\fIinteger1\fR \fBrequests)\fR.
\fIinteger2\fR print requests await this form.
Use the \fIribbon-color\fR ribbon.
Use the \fIprint-wheel\fR print wheel, if appropriate.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The printers listed are those that the administrator has specified as
candidates for this form. The number
.I integer1
listed next to each
printer is the number of requests eligible for the printer. The number
.I integer2
shown after the list of printers is the total number of
requests awaiting the form. It will be less than the sum of the other numbers
if some requests can be handled by more than one printer. The
.I ribbon-color
and
.I print-wheel
are those specified in the form
description. The last line in the message is always sent, even if none of the
printers listed use print wheels, because the administrator may choose to
mount the form on a printer that does use a print wheel.
.sp
.LP
Where any color ribbon or any print wheel can be used, the statements above
will read:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBUse any ribbon.\fR
\fBUse any print-wheel.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If
.IR form-name " is"
.BR any ,
the
.I alert-type
defined in this
command applies to any form for which an alert has not yet been defined. If
.I form-name
is
.BR all ,
the
.I alert-type
defined in this command
applies to all forms.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -W
.I minutes
option is not given,  the default procedure is
that only one message will be sent per need to mount the form. Not specifying
the
.B -W
option is equivalent to specifying
.B "-W once"
or
.BR "-W 0" .
If
.I minutes
is a number greater than
.BR 0 ,
an
alert will be sent at intervals specified by
.IR minutes .
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -Q
.I requests
option is also given, the alert will be sent
when a certain number (specified by the argument
.IR requests )
of print
requests that need the form are waiting. If the
.B -Q
option is not given,
or the value of
.I requests
is
.B 1
or
.B any
(which are both the
default), a message is sent as soon as  anyone submits a print request for
the form when it is not mounted.
.SS "Listing the Current Alert"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -f
option, followed by the
.B -A
option and the argument
.B list
is used to list the
.I alert-type
that has been defined for the
specified form
.IR form-name .
No change is made to the alert. If
.I form-name
is recognized by the LP print service, one of the following
lines is sent to the standard output, depending on the type of alert for the
form.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.B When
.I requests
.B requests are queued:
\fBalert
with\fIshell-command\fR \fBevery\fR
.I minutes
\fBminutes\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.B When
.I requests
.B "requests are queued:" write to
.I user-name
.B every
.I minutes
.B minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.B When
.I requests
.B "requests are queued:" mail to
.I user-name
.B every
.I minutes
.B minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.B No alert
.RE

.sp
.LP
The phrase
.B every
.I minutes
.B minutes
is replaced with
\fBonce\fR if
.I minutes
(\fB-W\fIminutes\fR) is 0.
.SS "Terminating an Active Alert"
.sp
.LP
The
.B "-A quiet"
option is used to stop messages for the current
condition. An administrator can use this option to temporarily stop receiving
further messages about a known problem. Once the form has been mounted and
then unmounted, messages will again be sent when the number of print requests
reaches the threshold
.IR requests .
.SS "Removing an Alert Definition"
.sp
.LP
No messages will be sent after the
.B "-A none"
option is used until
the
.B -A
option is given again with a different
.IR alert-type .
This
can be used  to permanently stop further messages from being sent as any
existing alert definition for the form will be removed.
.SS "Large File Behavior"
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B lpforms
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/lp/alerts/form
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Fault handler for
.BR lpform .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR lpadmin (1M),
.BR terminfo (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
