'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lpshut 1M "8 Jan 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
lpshut \- stop the LP print service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlpshut\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lpshut
command stops the
.B LP
print service.
.sp
.LP
Printers that are printing when
.B lpshut
is invoked stop printing.
Start or restart printers using
.BR lpsched (1M).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/lp/*
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
.B LP
print queue.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWpsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR lpadmin (1M),
.BR lpmove (1M),
.BR lpsched (1M),
.BR attributes (
5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
