'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH luxadm 1M "24 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
luxadm \- administer Sun Fire 880 storage subsystem and FC_AL devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBluxadm\fR [\fIoptions\fR].\|.\|. \fIsubcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR].\|.\|. \fIenclosure\fR
     [,\fIdev\fR] | \fIpathname\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B luxadm
program is an administrative command that manages the
.BR SENA ,
Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and individual Fiber
Channel Arbitrated Loop (\fBFC_AL\fR) devices. \fBluxadm\fR performs a
variety of control and query tasks depending on the command line arguments
and options used.
.sp
.LP
The command line must contain a subcommand. The command line may also
contain options, usually at least one enclosure name or pathname, and other
parameters depending on the subcommand. You need specify only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a subcommand.
.sp
.LP
Specify the device that a subcommand interacts with by entering a pathname.
For the
.B SENA
subsystem, a disk device or enclosure services controller
may instead be specified by entering the World Wide Name (\fBWWN\fR) for the
device or a port to the device. The device may also be specified by entering
the name of the
.B SENA
enclosure, and an optional identifier for the
particular device in the enclosure. The individual
.B FC_AL
devices may be
specified by entering the
.B WWN
for the device or a port to the device.
.SS "Pathname"
.sp
.LP
Specify the device or controller by either a complete physical pathname or a
complete logical pathname.
.sp
.LP
For
.B SENA,
a typical physical pathname for a device is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/sbus@1f,0/SUNW,socal@1,0/sf@0,0/ssd@w2200002037000f96,
         0:a,raw
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For all
.B "SENA IBs"
(Interface Boards) and Sun Fire 880 SES device
controllers on the system, a logical link to the physical paths is kept in
the directory
.BR /dev/es .
An example of a logical link is
.BR /dev/es/ses0 .
.sp
.LP
The
.B WWN
may be used in place of the pathname to select an
.BR FC_AL
device,
.B SENA
subsystem IB, or Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
The
.B WWN
is a unique 16 hexadecimal digit value that specifies either
the port used to access the device or the device itself. A typical \fBWWN\fR
value is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2200002037000f96
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See NOTES for more information on the
.B WWN
formats.
.sp
.LP
For a disk in a Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, a typical physical
pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@2/fp@0,0/ssd@w2100002037a6303c,0:a
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and a typical logical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/rdsk/c2t8d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For individual FC_AL devices, a typical physical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/sbus@3.0/SUNW,socal@d,10000/sf@0,0/ssd@w2200002037049fc3,0:a,raw
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and a typical logical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/rdsk/c1t0d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Enclosure"
.sp
.LP
For
.B SENA,
a device may be identified by its enclosure name and
slotname:
.br
.in +2
\fIbox_name\fR[\fB,f\fIslot_number\fR]
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fIbox_name\fR[\fB,r\fIslot_number\fR]
.in -2
.sp
.LP
\fIbox_name\fR is the name of the \fBSENA\fR enclosure, as specified by the
\fBenclosure_name\fR subcommand. When used without the optional
\fIslot_number\fR parameter, the \fIbox_name\fR identifies the \fBSENA\fR
subsystem
.BR IB.
.sp
.LP
\fBf\fR or \fBr\fR specifies the front or rear slots in the \fBSENA\fR
enclosure.
.sp
.LP
\fIslot_number\fR specifies the slot number of the device in the \fBSENA\fR
enclosure,
.B 0-6
or
.BR 0-10 .
.sp
.LP
For a Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, a device may also be
identified by its enclosure name and slot name. However, there is only one
set of disks:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIbox_name\fR[,\fIsslot_number\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIbox_name\fR is the name of the Sun Fire 880 enclosure, as specified by
the
.B enclosure_name
subcommand. When used without the optional
\fIslot_number\fR parameter, \fIbox_name\fR identifies the Sun Fire 880
internal storage subsystem enclosure services device. Use
.I s
to specify
.RB "the disk slot number in the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem," " 0"
- \fB11\fR.
.sp
.LP
See \fBdisks\fR(1M) and \fBdevlinks\fR(1M) for additional information on
logical names for disks and subsystems.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by all subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Expert mode. This option is not recommended for the novice user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Verbose mode.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Options that are specific to particular subcommands are described with the
subcommand in the
.B USAGE
section.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I enclosure
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.I box_name
of the
.B SENA
or Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfibre_channel_HBA_port\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to the host controller port. A typical path is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 /devices/pci@8,600000/pci@1/SUNW,qlc@4/fp@0,0:devctl
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pathname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The logical or physical path of a
.BR "SENA IB" ,
Sun Fire 880 internal
storage subsystem, or disk device.
.I pathname
can also be the
.BR WWN
of a
.BR "SENA IB" ,
\fBSENA\fR disk, or individual \fBFC_AL\fR device.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdisplay\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBdisplay -p\fR \fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBdisplay -r\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBdisplay -v\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays enclosure or device specific data.
.sp
Subsystem data consists of enclosure environmental sense information and
status for all subsystem devices, including disks.
.sp
Disk data consists of inquiry, capacity, and configuration information.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays performance information for the device or subsystem specified by
.IR pathname .
This option only applies to subsystems that accumulate
performance information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays error information for the
.B FC_AL
device specified by the
pathname, or, if the path is a
.B SENA,
for all devices on the loop. The
\fB-r\fR option only applies to \fBSENA\fR subsystems and individual
\fBFC_AL\fR devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays in verbose mode, including mode sense data.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdownload\fR [ \fB-s\fR ] [ \fB-f\fR \fIfilename_path\fR ]
.IR enclosure .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the prom image pointed to the SENA subsystem Interface Board unit
or the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem specified by the enclosure or
pathname.
.sp
When the
.B SENA's
download is complete, the
.B SENA
will be reset and
the downloaded code executed. If no filename is specified, the default prom
image will be used. The default prom image for the
.B SENA
is in the
directory
.B usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES
and is named \fBibfirmware\fR
.sp
When the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem's download is complete, the
subsystem resets and the downloaded code begins execution. The default
firmware image for the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem is in:
\fB/usr/platform/SUNW,Sun-Fire-880/lib/images/int_fcbpl_fw\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Save. The
.B -s
option is used to save the downloaded firmware in the
FEPROM. If
.B -s
is not specified, the downloaded firmware will not be
saved across power cycles.
.sp
The
.B -s
option does not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem as it always stores downloaded firmware in the flash memory.
.sp
When using the
.B -s
option, the
.B download
subcommand modifies the
\fBFEPROM\fR on the subsystem and should be used with \fIcaution\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enclosure_name
.I "new_name enclosure"
.RI | " pathname"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the enclosure name of the enclosure or enclosures specified by the
enclosure or pathname. The new name (\fInew_name\fR) must be 16 or less
characters. Only alphabetic or numeric characters are acceptable. This
subcommand applies only to the SENA and the Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfailover primary\fR | \fBsecondary\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select which Sun Storage T3 storage array partner group controller accesses
a given logical volume. If
.B primary
is specified, the logical volume is
accessed through the primary controller. If
.B secondary
is specified, the
logical volume is accessed through the secondary controller specified by
.IR pathname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfcal_s_download\fR [ \fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the fcode contained in the file \fIfcode-file\fR into
.I all
the
\fBFC100/S\fR Sbus Cards. This command is interactive and expects user
confirmation before downloading the fcode.
.sp
Use \fBfcal_s_download\fR
.I only
in single-user mode. Using
\fBfcal_s_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is \fBI/O\fR
activity through that adapter
.I will
cause the adapter to reset. Newly
updated FCode will not be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When invoked without the \fB-f\fR option, the current version of the fcode
in each
.B FC100/S
Sbus card is printed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfcode_download -p\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBfcode_download -d\fR \fIdir-name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Locate the installed
.BR FC/S ,
.BR "FC100/S, FC100/P" ,
or
.BR FC100/2P
host bus adapter cards and download the FCode files in
.I dir-name
to the
appropriate cards. The command determines the correct card for each type of
file, and is interactive. User confirmation is required before downloading
the FCode to each device.
.sp
Use \fBfcode_download\fR to load FCode only in single-user mode. Using
\fBfcode_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is \fBI/O\fR
activity through that adapter causes the adapter to reset. Newly updated
FCode will not be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIdir-name\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Download the FCode files contained in the directory
.I dir-name
to the
appropriate adapter cards.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints the current version of FCode loaded on each card. No download is
performed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinquiry\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR ]\|.\|.\|.\| |
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the inquiry information for the selected device specified by the
enclosure or pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinsert_device\fR [ \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|. ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assist the user in the hot insertion of a new device or a chain of new
devices. Refer to
.B NOTES
for limitations on hotplug operations. This
subcommand applies only to the
.BR SENA ,
Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem, and individual FC_AL drives. For the
.BR SENA ,
if more than one
enclosure has been specified, concurrent hot insertions on multiple busses
can be performed. With no arguments to the subcommand, entire enclosures or
individual
.B FC_AL
drives can be inserted. For the
.B SENA
or the Sun
Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, this subcommand guides the user
interactively through the hot insertion steps of a new device or chain of
devices. If a list of disks was entered it will ask the user to verify the
list of devices to be inserted is correct, at which point the user can
continue or quit. It then interactively asks the user to insert the disk(s)
or enclosure(s) and then creates and displays the logical pathnames for the
devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBled\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the current state of the
.B LED
associated with the disk
specified by the enclosure or pathname. This subcommand only applies to
subsystems that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBled_blink\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to start blinking the
.B LED
associated with the
disk specified by the enclosure or pathname. This subcommand only applies to
subsystems that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBled_off\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to disable (turn off) the
.B LED
associated with
the disk specified by the enclosure or pathname. On a
.B SENA
subsystem,
this may or may not cause the
.B LED
to turn off or stop blinking
depending on the state of the
.B SENA
subsystem. Refer to the \fBSENA\fR
Array Installation and Service Manual (p/n 802-7573). This subcommand only
applies to subsystems that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBled_on\fR \fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to enable (turn on) the
.B LED
associated with the
disk specified by the pathname. This subcommand only applies to subsystems
that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpower_off\fR [ \fB-F\fR ] \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|. |
\fIpathname\fR \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a
.B SENA
.RB "is addressed, this subcommand causes the" " SENA"
subsystem to go into the power-save mode. The
.B SENA
drives are not
available when in the power-save mode. When a drive in a
.B SENA
is
addressed the drive is set to the drive off/unmated state. In the drive
off/unmated state, the drive is spun down (stopped) and in bypass mode. This
command does not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The force option only applies to the
.B SENA.
Instructs
.B luxadm
to
attempt to power off one or more devices even if those devices are being used
by this host (and are, therefore, busy).
.sp
.BR Warning :
Powering off a device which has data that is currently being
used will cause unpredictable results. Users should attempt to power off the
device normally
.RB "(without " -F )
first, only resorting to this option when
sure of the consequences of overriding normal checks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpower_on\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes the
.B SENA
subsystem to go out of the power-save mode, when this
subcommand is addressed to a
.BR SENA. .
When this subcommand is addressed
to a drive the drive is set to its normal start-up state. This command does
not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBprobe\fR [ \fB-p\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Finds and displays information about all attached
.B SENA
subsystems, Sun
Fire 880 internal storage subsystems, and individual
.B FC_AL
devices,
including the logical pathname, the
.B WWNs,
and enclosure names. This
subcommand warns the user if it finds different
.B SENAs
with the same
enclosure names.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Includes the physical pathname in the display.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBqlgc_s_download\fR [ \fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the FCode contained in the file \fIfcode-file\fR into all the
.BR FC100/P ,
\fBFC100/2P PCI\fR host adapter cards. This command is
interactive and expects user confirmation before downloading the FCode to
each device. Only use
.B qlgc_s_download
in single-user mode. Using
\fBqlgc_s_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is\fB I/O\fR
activity through that adapter will cause the adapter to reset. Newly updated
FCode will not be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When invoked without the \fB-f\fR option, the current version of the FCode
in each \fBFC100/P\fR,\fB FC100/2P PCI\fR card is printed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrelease\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Release a reservation held on the specified disk. The pathname should be the
physical or logical pathname for the disk.
.sp
This subcommand is included for historical and diagnostic purposes only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBremove_device\fR [ \fB-F\fR ] \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assists the user in hot removing a device or a chain of devices. This
subcommand can also be used to remove entire enclosures. This subcommand
applies to the
.BR SENA ,
Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and
individual
.B FC_AL
drives. Refer to
.B NOTES
for limitations on
hotplug operations. For the
.BR SENA ,
Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem, and individual
.B FC_AL
devices, this subcommand guides the
user through the hot removal of a device or devices. During execution it will
ask the user to verify the list of devices to be removed is correct, at which
point the user can continue or quit. It then prepares the disk(s) or
enclosure(s) for removal and interactively asks the user to remove the
disk(s) or enclosure(s).
.sp
For Multi-Hosted disk, the steps taken are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Issue the
.B "luxadm remove_device"
command on the first host. When
prompted to continue, wait.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Issue the
.B "luxadm remove_device"
command on the secondary hosts.
When prompted to continue, wait.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Continue with the
.B remove_device
command on the first host. Remove the
device when prompted to do so.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Complete the
.B "luxadm remove_device"
command on the additional
hosts.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Instructs
.B luxadm
to attempt to hot plug one or more devices even if
those devices are being used by this host (and are, therefore,
.B busy
or
.BR reserved ),
to \fBforce\fR the hotplugging operation.
.sp
.BR Warning :
Removal of a device which has data that is currently being
used will cause unpredictable results. Users should attempt to hotplug
normally
.RB "(without " -F )
first, only resorting to this option when sure of
the consequences of overriding normal hotplugging checks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBreserve\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reserve the specified disk for exclusive use by the issuing host. The
pathname used should be the physical or logical pathname for the disk.
.sp
This subcommand is included for historical and diagnostic purposes only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBset_boot_dev\fR [ \fB-y\fR ] \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the boot-device variable in the system
.B PROM
to the physical device
name specified by
.IR pathname ,
which can be a block special device or the
pathname of the directory on which the boot file system is mounted. The
command normally runs interactively requesting confirmation for setting the
default boot-device in the
.BR PROM .
The
.B -y
option can be used to run
it non-interactively, in which case no confirmation is requested or
required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstart\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Spin up the specified disk(s) in a SENA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstop\fR \fIpathname\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Spin down the specified disks in a SENA.
.RE

.SS "SENA, Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage Subsystem, and Individual FC_AL Drive Expert Mode Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are for expert use only, and are applicable only
to the
.BR SENA ,
Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and fiber channel
loops. They should only be used by users that are knowledgeable about the
\fBSENA\fR subsystem and fiber channel loops.
.sp
.LP
If you specify a disk to an expert subcommand that operates on a bus, the
subcommand operates on the bus to which the specified disk is attached.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bypass\fR \fB[\fB-ab\fB]\fR
\fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-e bypass\fR \fB-f\fR \fIenclosure\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request the enclosure services controller to set the LRC (Loop Redundancy
Circuit) to the bypassed state for the port and device specified.
.sp
This subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Bypass port
.B a
of the device specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Bypass port
.B b
of the device specified.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e dump_map\fR \fIfibre_channel_HBA_port\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display WWN data for a target device or host bus adapter on the specified
fibre channel port. If there are no target devices on the specified port, an
error is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e enable\fR \fB[\fB-ab\fB]\fR
\fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-e enable\fR \fB-f\fR \fIenclosure\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request the enclosure services controller to set the LRC (Loop Redundancy
Circuit) to the enabled state for the port and device specified.
.sp
This subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Enable port
.B a
of the device specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Enable port
.B b
of the device specified.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e forcelip\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fIdev\fR] \|.\|.\|.
| \fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the link to reinitialize, using the Loop Initialization Primitive
(\fBLIP\fR) sequence. The enclosure or pathname can specify any device on the
loop. Use the pathname to specify a specific path for multiple loop
configurations.
.sp
This is an expert only command and should be used with caution. It will
reset all ports on the loop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e rdls\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fIdev\fR] \|.\|.\|. |
.IR pathname \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read and display the link error status information for all available devices
on the loop that contains the device specified by the enclosure or
pathname.
.RE

.SS "Other Expert Mode Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
See
.B NOTES
for limitations of these subcommands. They should only be
used by users that are knowledgeable about the systems they are managing.
.sp
.LP
These commands do not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bus_getstate\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Get and display the state of the specified bus.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bus_quiesce\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Quiesce the specified bus.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bus_reset\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Reset the specified bus only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bus_resetall\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Reset the specified bus and all devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e bus_unquiesce\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Unquiesce the specified bus. the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e dev_getstate\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Get and display the state of the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e dev_reset\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Reset the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e offline\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Take the specified device offline.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e online\fR \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Put the specified device online.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Displaying the \fBSENA\fRs and Individual FC_AL Devices on a
System
.sp
.LP
The following example finds and displays all of the
.BR SENA "s and"
individual
.B FC_AL
devices on a system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm probe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Displaying a \fBSENA\fR or Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage
Subsystem
.sp
.LP
The following example displays a
.B SENA
or Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display /dev/es/ses0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Displaying Two Subsystems
.sp
.LP
The following example displays two subsystems using the enclosure names:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB system1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Displaying Information about the First Disk
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information about the first disk in the front
of the enclosure named
.B BOB.
Use \fBf\fR to specify the front disks. Use
\fBr\fR to specify the rear disks.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB,f0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Displaying Information on a Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage
Subsystem
.sp
.LP
The Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem has only one set of disks. In
this case, use
.I s
to specify the slot:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB,s0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Displaying Information about a \fBSENA\fR disk, an
Enclosure, or an Individual
.B FC_AL
Drive
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information about a
.B SENA
disk, an
enclosure, or an individual
.B FC_AL
drive with the port
.B WWN
of
.BR 2200002037001246 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display 2200002037001246\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Using Unique Characters to Issue a Subcommand
.sp
.LP
The following example uses only as many characters as are required to
uniquely identify a subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm disp BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8\fR Displaying Error Information
.sp
.LP
The following example displays error information about the loop that the
enclosure
.B BOB
is on:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display \fB-r\fB BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9\fR Downloading New Firmware into the Interface Board
.sp
.LP
The following example downloads new firmware into the Interface Board in the
enclosure named
.B BOB
(using the default path for the file to
download):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm download \fB-s\fB BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10\fR Displaying Information from the \fBSCSI\fR Inquiry
Command
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information from the
.B SCSI
inquiry
command from all individual disks on the system, using only as many
characters as necessary to uniquely identify the inquiry subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm inq /dev/rdsk/c?t?d?s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11\fR Hotplugging
.sp
.LP
The following example hotplugs a new drive into the first slot in the front
of the enclosure named
.BR BOB:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm insert_device BOB,f0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example hotplugs a new drive into the first slot in the Sun
Fire 880 internal storage subsystem named SF880-1:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm insert_device SF880-1,s0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 12\fR Running an Expert Subcommand
.sp
.LP
The following example runs an expert subcommand. The subcommand forces a
loop initialization on the loop that the enclosure
.B BOB
is on:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm \fB-e\fB forcelip BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 13\fR Using the Expert Mode Hot Plugging Subcommands
.sp
.LP
An example of using the expert mode hot plugging subcommands to hot remove a
disk follows. See
.B NOTES
for hot plugging limitations.

.sp
.LP
The first step reserves the SCSI device so that it can't be accessed by way
of its second SCSI bus:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm reserve /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 14\fR Taking the Disk to be Removed Offline
.sp
.LP
The next two steps take the disk to be removed offline then quiesce the
bus:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm \fB-e\fB offline /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm -e bus_quiesce /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 15\fR Unquiescing the Bus
.sp
.LP
The user then removes the disk and continues by unquiescing the bus, putting
the disk back online, then unreserving it:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm \fB-e\fB bus_unquiesce /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm \fB-e\fB online /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm release /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for a description of the
.B LANG
environment
variable that affects the execution of
.BR luxadm .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi1\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBusr/lib/firmware/fc_s/fc_s_fcode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBusr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/ibfirmware\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "usr/sbin"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWluxop
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR devlinks (1M),
.BR disks (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR ses (
7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISENA Array Installation and Service Manual\fR (p/n 802-7573).
.sp
.LP
.I "RAID Manager 6.1 Installation and Support Guide Answerbook
.sp
.LP
.I "RAID Manager 6.1 User's Guide Answerbook
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
See the
.I "SENA Array Installation and Service Manual"
for additional
information on the
.B SENA.
Refer to \fITutorial for SCSI use of IEEE
Company_ID\fR, R. Snively, for additional information regarding the
\fBIEEE\fR extended \fBWWN.\fR See
.BR "SEE ALSO" .
Currently, only some
device drivers support hot plugging. If hot plugging is attempted on a disk
or bus where it is not supported, an error message of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
luxadm: can't acquire "PATHNAME": No such file or directory
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
You must be careful not to quiesce a bus that contains the root or the
\fB/usr\fR filesystems or any swap data. If you do quiesce such a bus a
deadlock can result, requiring a system reboot.
