'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH medstat 1M "18 Jan 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
medstat \- check the status of mediator hosts for a given diskset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/medstat\fR [\fB-q\fR] \fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If a specified diskset has been configured for mediators, \fBmedstat\fR
attempts to contact these hosts to see if they are accessible and returns
the results of the communication.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This optional argument disables the printing of informative text. When used
with
.BR -q ,
.B medstat
still prints error messages and returns a
result code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I setname
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the name of a diskset on which
.B medstat
will work.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Checking diskset
.sp
.LP
This example checks the mediator hosts for the selected diskset.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# medstat -s relo-red
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The name of the diskset is
.BR relo-red .
The
.B medstat
command prints
the status for each mediator host. Additionally, if the mediator quorum is
met, either through a ``golden'' mediator host or because half+1 of the
mediator hosts respond, the exit code is 0. If the quorum is not met, then
the exit code is 1. If no mediator hosts have been configured for the named
diskset, the exit code is 2. The status field will contain one of the
following values: Unreachable, Bad, Fatal, or Ok, where Unreachable
indicates an RPC/communication problem, Bad indicates an error in the
mediator data, Fatal indicates any other error condition, and Ok indicates
no error conditions.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/lvm/meddb
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Contains the mediator data for a host that has been selected as a mediator
host.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWmdu
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR metaclear (1M),
.BR metadb (1M),
.BR metadetach (1M),
.BR metahs (1M),
.BR metainit (1M),
.BR metaoffline (1M),
.BR metaonline (1M),
.BR metaparam (1M),
.BR metareplace (1M),
.BR metaroot (1M),
.BR metaset (1M),
.BR metastat (1M),
.BR metasync (1M),
.BR metattach (1M),
.BR md.cf (4),
.BR md.tab (4),
.BR mddb.cf (4),
.BR meddb (4),
.BR mediator (7D)
.sp
.LP
Sun Cluster documentation, \fISolaris Volume Manager Administration
Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This command is designed for use in the high availability product.
