'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mibiisa 1M "11 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mibiisa \- Sun SNMP Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmibiisa\fR [\fB-ar\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIconfig-dir\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdebug-level\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fIcache-timer\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility is an RFC 1157-compliant SNMP agent. It supports
MIB-II as defined in
.IR "RFC 1213" ,
with Sun extensions under Sun's
enterprise number. The MIB (Management Information Base) is both readable
and writable. The
.B mibiisa
utility supports all SNMP protocol
operations including GET-REQUEST, GETNEXT-REQUEST, SET-REQUEST, GET-REPLY,
and TRAP.
.sp
.LP
The SMA (Systems Management Agent) is the default SNMP agent in Solaris.
MIB-II subagent
.B mibiisa
does not run by default. To enable
.BR mibiisa ,
rename the configuration file from
.B /etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.rsrc-
to
.BR /etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.rsrc .
SMA
has the capability to handle any MIB-II requests.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility supports the coldStart, linkUp, linkDown, and
authentication traps. The authentication trap may be disabled by a
command-line switch, which itself may be overridden by a management station
writing to a MIB variable in the standard SNMP MIB group.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility supports four distinct views of the MIB. The view
used for any request is determined by the community string contained in that
request.
.sp
.LP
To enhance security,
.B mibiisa
supports an option to block all writes
to the MIB. You can also limit the set of management stations from which the
agent will accept requests in the configuration file used when starting the
.BR mibiisa .
See the section for more information.
.sp
.LP
Unless overridden,
.B mibiisa
uses UDP port 161, the standard SNMP port.
The
.B mibiisa
utility issues traps through the same port on which it
receives SNMP requests.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility must run with super-user privileges and is
typically started at system startup via
.BR /etc/rc3.d .
.B mibiisa
may
not be started using
.BR inetd "(1M). When started,"
.B mibiisa
detaches
itself from the keyboard, disables all signals except
.BR SIGKILL ,
.BR SIGILL ,
.BR SIGUSR1 ,
and
.BR SIGUSR2 ,
and places itself in the
background.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR mibiisa :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Disable the generation of authentication traps. However, an SNMP manager
may write a value into
.B snmpEnableAuthenTraps
to enable or disable
authentication traps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I config-dir
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Specify a directory where it expects
.B snmpd.conf
file, on startup. The
default directory is
.BR /etc/snmp/conf .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I debug-level
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Debug. A value of 0 disables all debug and is the default. Levels 1 through
3 represent increasing levels of debug output. When
.B mibiisa
receives
the signal
.BR SIGUSR1 ,
.RB "it resets the debug-level to 0. When" " mibiisa"
receives the signal
.BR SIGUSR2 ,
it increments the debug-level by one.
.sp
Debug output is sent to the standard output in effect at the time
.B mibiisa
is started. No matter what debug level is in effect, certain
significant events are logged in the system log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I port
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Define an alternative UDP port on which
.B mibiisa
listens for incoming
requests. The default is UDP port 161.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Place the MIB into read-only mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I cache-timer
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
By default, information fetched from the kernel is considered to be valid
for 45 seconds from the time it is retrieved. This cache lifetime may be
altered with this parameter. You cannot set
.I cache-timer
to any value
less than 1.
.RE

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.sp
.LP
The
.B snmpd.conf
file is used for configuration information. Each entry
in the file consists of a keyword followed by a parameter string. The
keyword must begin in the first position. Parameters are separated from the
keyword and from one another by white space. Case in keywords is ignored.
Each entry must be contained on a single line. All text following (and
including) a pound sign (#) is ignored. Keywords currently supported are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sysdescr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value to be used to answer queries for sysDescr.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B syscontact
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value to be used to answer queries for sysContact.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B syslocation
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value to be used to answer queries for sysLocation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B trap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The parameter names one or more hosts to receive traps. Only five hosts may
be listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B system-group-read-community
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The community name to get read access to the system group and Sun's
extended system group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B system-group-write-community
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The community name to get write access to the system group and Sun's
extended system group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B read-community
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The community name to get read access to the entire MIB.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B write-community
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The community name to get write access to the entire MIB (implies read
access).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B trap-community
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The community name to be used in traps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B kernel-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the file to use for kernel symbols.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B managers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The names of hosts that may send SNMP queries. Only five hosts may be
listed on any one line. This keyword may be repeated for a total of 32
hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B newdevice
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The additional devices which are not built in SNMPD. The format is as
follows:
.I newdevice
.B type
.I "speed name"
where
.I newdevice
is the keyword,
.B type
is an integer which has to match
your schema file,
.I speed
is the new device's speed, and
.I name
is
this new device's name.
.RE

.sp
.LP
An example
.B snmpd.conf
file is shown below:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sysdescr        Sun SNMP Agent, Sun Fire 4800, Company
                   Property Number 123456
syscontact      Cliff Claven
sysLocation     Room 1515, building 1
#
system-group-read-community     public
system-group-write-community    private
#
read-community  all_public
write-community all_private
#
trap            localhost
trap-community  SNMP-trap
#
#kernel-file    /vmunix
#
managers        lvs golden
managers        swap
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH INSTALLATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility and its configuration file,
.BR snmpd.conf ,
may
be placed in any directory. However for Solaris 2.4 and subseqent releases,
use
.B /usr/lib/snmp
for
.B mibiisa
itself and
.B /etc/snmp/conf
for the configuration file. You can modify the configuration file as
appropriate. If you make any changes to
.B snmpd.conf
file keyword
values, you must kill and restart
.B mibiisa
for the changes to take
effect.
.sp
.LP
Your
.B /etc/services
file (or NIS equivalent) should contain the
following entries:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(5.5i)
lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(5.5i)
.
\fBsnmp\fR\fB161/udp\fR\fB# Simple Network Mgmt Protocol\fR
\fBsnmp-trap\fR\fB162/udp\fR\fBsnmptrap\fR\fB# SNMP trap (event) messages\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following is an example for Solaris 2.\fIx\fR and releases compatible
with Solaris 2.\fIx\fR, such as Solaris 9:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# Start the SNMP agent
#
if [ -f /etc/snmp/conf/snmpd.conf -a -x
   /usr/lib/snmp/mibiisa ];
then
/opt/SUNWconn/snm/agents/snmpd
echo 'Starting SNMP-agent.'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
SNMP, as presently defined, offers relatively little security. The
.B mibiisa
utility accepts requests from other machines, which can have
the effect of disabling the network capabilities of your computer. To limit
the risk, the configuration file lets you specify a list of up to 32 manager
stations from which
.B mibiisa
will accept requests. If you do not
specify any such manager stations,
.B mibiisa
accepts requests from
anywhere.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmibiisa\fR utility also allows you to mark the MIB as "read-only" by
using the
.B -r
option.
.sp
.LP
.B mibiisa
supports four different community strings. These strings,
however, are visible in the configuration file and within the SNMP packets
as they flow on the network.
.sp
.LP
The configuration file should be owned by, and readable only by super-user.
In other words the mode should be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\(mirw\(mi\(mi\(mi\(mi\(mi\(mi\(mi  1 root         2090 Oct 17 15:04 /etc/snmp/conf/snmpd.conf
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Managers can be restricted based on the community strings. This can be
configured by creating an optional secondary configuration file
.BR /etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.acl .
To enable such a restriction, add the
security line in the
.B /etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.rsrc
file.
.sp
.LP
An example
.B mibiisa.acl
file is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
acl = {
        {
                communities = public
                access = read-only
                managers = xyz
        }
        {
                communities = private
                access = read-write
                managers = abc,pqrs
        }
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
An example
.B mibiisa.rsrc
file is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
resource =
{
        {
                registration_file = "/etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.reg"
                security = "/etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.acl"
                policy = "spawn"
                type = "legacy"
                command = "/usr/lib/snmp/mibiisa -r -p $PORT"
        }
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH MIB
.sp
.LP
This section discusses some of the differences between the
.BR mibiisa
MIB and the standard MIB-II (as defined in RFC 1213).
.sp
.LP
The following variables are read-only in the
.B mibiisa
MIB:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sysName
atIfIndex
ipDefaultTTL
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
These variables are read-write in the standard MIB-II.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
MIB Address Translation tables support limited write
access: only atPhysAddress may be written, either to change the physical
address of an existing entry or to delete an entire ARP table entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
MIB IP Net to Media table supports limited write access:
only ipNetToMediaPhysAddress and ipNetToMediaType may be written, either to
change the physical address of an existing entry or to delete an entire ARP
table entry.
.sp
.LP
The following variables are read-write in the
.B mibiisa
MIB; however,
these variables have fixed values. Any new values "set" to them are
accepted, but have no effect:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ipRoutIfIndex
ipRouteMetric1
ipRouteMetric2
ipRouteMetric3
ipRouteMetric4
ipRouteType
ipRouteAge
ipRouteMask
ipRouteMetric5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following
.B mibiisa
MIB variable reflects the actual state of the
related table entry. "Sets" are accepted but have no effect:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
tcpConnState
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following
.B mibiisa
MIB variables are readable, but return a fixed
value:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.08i) lw(3.42i)
lw(2.08i) lw(3.42i)
.
\fBicmpInDestUnreachs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInTimeExcds\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInParmProbs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInSrcQuenchs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInRedirects\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInEchos\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInEchoReps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInTimestamps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInTimestampReps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInAddrMasks\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpInAddrMaskReps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutDestUnreachs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutTimeExcds\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutParmProbs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutSrcQuenchs\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutRedirects\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutEchos\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutEchoReps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutTimestamps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutTimestampReps\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutAddrMasks\fRReturns 1
\fBicmpOutAddrMaskReps\fRReturns 1
\fBifInUnknownProtos\fRReturns 0
\fBipAdEntBcastAddr\fRReturns 1
\fBipAdEntReasmMaxSiz\fRReturns 65535
\fBipRouteMetric1\fRReturns \(mi1
\fBipRouteMetric2\fRReturns \(mi1
\fBipRouteMetric3\fRReturns \(mi1
\fBipRouteMetric4\fRReturns \(mi1
\fBipRouteAge\fRReturns 0
\fBipRouteMetric5\fRReturns \(mi1
\fBipNetToMediaType\fRReturns (3) dynamic
\fBipRoutingDiscards\fRReturns 0
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following variables return a fixed value of
.B 0
for drivers not
conforming to the
.B GLD
framework (see
.BR gld (7D)),
including the old
.B LAN
drivers on SPARC machines:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.08i) lw(3.42i)
lw(2.08i) lw(3.42i)
.
\fBifInOctets\fRReturns 0
\fBifInNUcastPkts\fRReturns 0
\fBifInDiscards\fRReturns 0
\fBifOutOctets\fRReturns 0
\fBifOutNUcastPkts\fRReturns 0
\fBifOutDiscards\fRReturns 0
.TE

.SH SCHEMA ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
The following describes the attributes in the group and table definitions
in the
.B /var/snmp/mib/sun.mib
file.
.SS "system"
.sp
.LP
The
.B system
group reports statistics about a particular system (for
example, a workstation or a printer).
.sp
.LP
.B sysDescr
\(mi A textual description of the entity. This value should
include the full name and version identification of the system's hardware
type, software operating-system, and networking software. This value must
only contain printable ASCII characters. (string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B sysObjectID
\(mi The vendor's authoritative identification of the
network management subsystem contained in the entity. This value is
allocated within the SMI enterprises subtree (1.3.6.1.4.1) and provides an
easy and unambiguous means for determining what type of equipment is being
managed. For example, if vendor "Flintstones, Inc." was assigned the subtree
1.3.6.1.4.1.4242, it could assign the identifier 1.3.6.1.4.1.4242.1.1 to its
"Fred Router." (objectid)
.sp
.LP
.B sysUpTime
\(mi Time (in hundredths of a second) since the network
management portion of the system was last reinitialized. (timeticks)
.sp
.LP
.B sysContact
\(mi The textual identification of the contact person for
this managed node, together with information on how to contact this person.
(string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B sysName
\(mi An administratively-assigned name for this managed node.
By convention, this is the node's fully-qualified domain name.
(string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B sysLocation
\(mi The physical location of this node (for example,
"telephone closet, 3rd floor" (string[255]))
.sp
.LP
.B sysServices
\(mi A value indicating the set of services that this
entity primarily offers. (int) The value is a sum. This sum initially takes
the value zero. Then, for each layer L in the range 1 through 7 for which
this node performs transactions, 2 raised to (L - 1) is added to the sum.
For example, a node that performs primarily routing functions would have a
value of 4 (2**(3-1)). In contrast, a node that is a host offering
application services would have a value of 72 (2**(4-1) + 2**(7-1)). Note
that in the context of the Internet suite of protocols, values should be
calculated accordingly:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
LayerFunctionality
1physical (such as repeaters)
2datalink/subnetwork (such as bridges)
3internet (such as IP gateways)
4end-to-end (such as IP hosts)
7applications (such as mail relays)
.TE

.sp
.LP
For systems including OSI protocols, Layers 5 and 6 may also be counted.
.SS "interfaces"
.sp
.LP
The
.B interfaces
group reports the number of interfaces handled by the
agent.
.sp
.LP
.B ifNumber
\(mi The number of network interfaces, regardless of their
current state, present on this system. (int)
.SS "ifTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B ifTable
is a table of interface entries. The number of entries is
given by the value of ifNumber.
.sp
.LP
.B ifIndex
\(mi A unique value for each interface. Its value ranges
between 1 and the value of ifNumber. The value for each interface must
remain constant at least from one reinitialization of the entity's network
management system to the next reinitialization. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B ifDescr
\(mi A textual string containing information about the
interface. This string should include the name of the manufacturer, the
product name, and the version of the hardware interface. (string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B ifType
\(mi The type of interface, distinguished according to the
physical/link protocol(s) immediately below the network layer in the
protocol stack. (enum)
.sp
.LP
.B ifMtu
\(mi The size of the largest datagram that can be sent/received
on the interface, specified in octets. For interfaces used for transmitting
network datagrams, this is the size of the largest network datagram that can
be sent on the interface. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B ifSpeed
\(mi An estimate of the interface's current bandwidth in
bits-per-second. For interfaces that do not vary in bandwidth, or for those
where no accurate estimation can be made, this object should contain the
nominal bandwidth. (gauge)
.sp
.LP
.B if1hysAddress
\(mi The interface's address at the protocol layer
immediately below the network layer in the protocol stack. For interfaces
without such an address (for example, a serial line), this object should
contain an octet string of zero length. (octet[128])
.sp
.LP
.B ifAdminStatus
\(mi The desired state of the interface. The testing(3)
state indicates that no operational packets can be passed. (enum)
.sp
.LP
.B if OperStatus
\(mi The current operational state of the
interface. The testing(3) state indicates that no operational packets can be
passed. (enum)
.sp
.LP
.B ifLastChange
\(mi The value of sysUpTime at the time the interface
entered its current operational state. If the current state was entered
prior to the last reinitialization of the local network management
subsystem, then this object contains a zero value. (timeticks)
.sp
.LP
.B ifInOctets
\(mi The total number of octets received on the interface,
including framing characters. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifInUcastPkts
\(mi The number of subnetwork-unicast packets delivered
to a higher-layer protocol. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ifInNUcastPkts
\(mi The number of non-unicast (that is, subnetwork-
broadcast or subnetwork-multicast) packets delivered to a higher-layer
protocol. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifInDiscards
\(mi The number of inbound packets chosen to be
discarded, even though no errors had been detected to prevent their being
deliverable to a higher-layer protocol. One possible reason for discarding
such a packet could be to free up buffer space. (counter) Returns a fixed
value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifInErrors
\(mi The number of inbound packets that contained errors
preventing them from being deliverable to a higher-layer protocol.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ifInUnknownProtos
\(mi The number of packets received via the
interface that were discarded because of an unknown or unsupported protocol.
(counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutOctets
\(mi The total number of octets transmitted out of the
interface, including framing characters. (counter) Returns a fixed value of
0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutUcastPkts
\(mi The total number of packets that higher-level
protocols requested be transmitted to a subnetwork-unicast address,
including those that were discarded or not sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutNUcastPkts
\(mi The total number of packets that higher-level
protocols requested be transmitted to a non- unicast (that is, a
subnetwork-broadcast or subnetwork-multicast) address, including those that
were discarded or not sent. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutDiscards
\(mi The number of outbound packets that were chosen to
be discarded even though no errors had been detected to prevent their being
transmitted. One possible reason for discarding such a packet could be to
free up buffer space. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutErrors
\(mi The number of outbound packets that could not be
transmitted because of errors. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ifOutQLen
\(mi The length of the output packet queue (in packets).
(gauge)
.sp
.LP
.B ifSpecific
\(mi A reference to MIB definitions specific to the
particular media being used to realize the interface. For example, if the
interface is realized by an Ethernet, then the value of this object refers
to a document defining objects specific to Ethernet. If this information is
not present, its value should be set to the
.B "OBJECT IDENTIFIER"
{ 0 0 },
which is a syntactically valid object identifier. Any conformant
implementation of ASN.1 and BER must be able to generate and recognize this
value. (objectid)
.SS "atTable"
.sp
.LP
.B atTable
Address Translation tables contain the NetworkAddress to
physical address equivalences. Some interfaces do not use translation tables
for determining address equivalences (for example, DDN-X.25 has an
algorithmic method). If all interfaces are of this type, then the Address
Translation table is empty, that is, has zero entries.
.sp
.LP
.B atIfIndex
\(mi The interface on which this entry's equivalence is
effective. The interface identified by a particular value of this index is
the same interface as identified by the same value of ifIndex. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B atPhysAddress
\(mi The media-dependent physical address. (octet[128])
Setting this object to a null string (one of zero length) has the effect of
invaliding the corresponding entry in the atTable object. That is, it
effectively dissociates the interface identified with said entry from the
mapping identified with said entry. It is an implementation-specific matter
as to whether the agent removes an invalidated entry from the table.
Accordingly, management stations must be prepared to receive tabular
information from agents that corresponds to entries not currently in use.
Proper interpretation of such entries requires examination of the relevant
atPhysAddress object.
.sp
.LP
.B atNetAddress
\(mi The NetworkAddress (that is, the IP address)
corresponding to the media-dependent physical address. (netaddress)
.SS "ip"
.sp
.LP
The
.B ip
group reports statistics about the Internet Protocol (IP)
group.
.sp
.LP
.B ipForwarding
\(mi The indication of whether this entity is acting as
an IP gateway in respect to the forwarding of datagrams received by, but not
addressed to, this entity. IP gateways forward datagrams. IP hosts do
not\(em except those source-routed via the host. (enum)
.sp
.LP
Note that for some managed nodes, this object may take on only a subset of
the values possible. Accordingly, it is appropriate for an agent to return a
"badValue" response if a management station attempts to change this object
to an inappropriate value.
.sp
.LP
.B ipDefaultTTL
\(mi The default value inserted into the Time-To-Live
field of the IP header of datagrams originated at this entity, whenever a
TTL value is not supplied by the transport layer protocol. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInReceives
\(mi The total number of input datagrams received from
interfaces, including those received in error. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInHdrErrors
\(mi The number of input datagrams discarded due to
errors in their IP headers, including bad checksums, version number
mismatch, other format errors, time-to-live exceeded, errors discovered in
processing their IP options, and so on. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInAddrErrors
\(mi The number of input datagrams discarded because
the IP address in their IP header's destination field was not a valid
address to be received at this entity. This count includes invalid addresses
(for example, 0.0.0.0) and addresses of unsupported Classes (for example,
Class E). For entities that are not IP Gateways and therefore do not forward
datagrams, this counter includes datagrams discarded because the destination
address was not a local address. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipForwDatagrams
\(mi The number of input datagrams for which this
entity was not their final IP destination, as a result of which an attempt
was made to find a route to forward them to that final destination. In
entities that do not act as IP Gateways, this counter will include only
those packets that were Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source- Route
option processing was successful. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInUnknownProtos
\(mi The number of locally-addressed datagrams
received successfully but discarded because of an unknown or unsupported
protocol. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInDiscards
\(mi The number of input IP datagrams for which no
problems were encountered to prevent their continued processing, but which
were discarded, for example, for lack of buffer space. Note that this
counter does not include any datagrams discarded while awaiting reassembly.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipInDelivers
\(mi The total number of input datagrams successfully
delivered to IP user-protocols (including ICMP). (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipOutRequests
\(mi The total number of IP datagrams that local IP
user-protocols (including ICMP) supplied to IP in requests for transmission.
Note that this counter does not include any datagrams counted in
ipForwDatagrams. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipOutDiscards
\(mi The number of output IP datagrams for which no
problem was encountered to prevent their transmission to their destination,
but which were discarded (for example, for lack of buffer space). Note that
this counter would include datagrams counted in ipForwDatagrams if any such
packets met this (discretionary) discard criterion. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipOutNoRoutes
\(mi The number of IP datagrams discarded because no
route could be found to transmit them to their destination. Note that this
counter includes any packets counted in ipForwDatagrams which meet this
"no-route" criterion. Note that this includes any datagrams that a host
cannot route because all its default gateways are down. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipReasmTimeout
\(mi The maximum number of seconds that received
fragments are held while they are awaiting reassembly at this entity.
(int)
.sp
.LP
.B ipReasmReqds
\(mi The number of IP fragments received that needed to
be reassembled at this entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipReasmOKs
\(mi The number of IP datagrams successfully reassembled.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipReasmFails
\(mi The number of failures detected by the IP
reassembly algorithm, for whatever reason: timed out, errors, and the like.
Note that this is not necessarily a count of discarded IP fragments since
some algorithms (notably the algorithm in RFC 815) can lose track of the
number of fragments by combining them as they are received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipFragOKs
\(mi The number of IP datagrams that have been successfully
fragmented at this entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipFragFails
\(mi The number of IP datagrams that have been discarded
because they needed to be fragmented at this entity but could not be, for
example, because their "Don't Fragment" flag was set. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipFragCreates
\(mi The number of IP datagram fragments that have been
generated as a result of fragmentation at this entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRoutingDiscards
\(mi The number of routing entries that were chosen
to be discarded even though they were valid. One possible reason for
discarding such an entry could be to free-up buffer space for other routing
entries. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.SS "ipAddrTable"
.sp
.LP
.B ipAddrTable
is a table of addressing information relevant to this
entity's IP addresses.
.sp
.LP
.B ipAdEntAddr
\(mi The IP address to which this entry's addressing
information pertains. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipAdEntIfIndex
\(mi The index value that uniquely identifies the
interface to which this entry is applicable. The interface identified by a
particular value of this index is the same interface as identified by the
same value of ifIndex. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B ipAdEntNetMask
\(mi The subnet mask associated with the IP address of
this entry. The value of the mask is an IP address with all the network bits
set to 1, and all the hosts bits set to 0. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipAdEntBcastAddr
\(mi The value of the least-significant bit in the
IP broadcast address used for sending datagrams on the (logical) interface
associated with the IP address of this entry. For example, when the Internet
standard all-ones broadcast address is used, the value will be 1. This value
applies to both the subnet and network broadcasts addresses used by the
entity on this (logical) interface. (int) Returns a fixed value of 1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipAdEntReasmMaxSize
\(mi The size of the largest IP datagram that
this entity can reassemble from incoming IP fragmented datagrams received on
this interface. (int) Returns a fixed value of 65535.
.SS "ipRouteTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipRouteTable
is this entity's IP Routing table.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteDest
\(mi The destination IP address of this route. An entry
with a value of 0.0.0.0 is considered a default route. Multiple routes to a
single destination can appear in the table, but access to such multiple
entries is dependent on the table- access mechanisms defined by the network
management protocol in use. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteIfIndex
\(mi The index value that uniquely identifies the
local interface through which the next hop of this route should be reached.
The interface identified by a particular value of this index is the same
interface as identified by the same value of ifIndex. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMetric1
\(mi The primary routing metric for this route. The
semantics of this metric are determined by the routing-protocol specified in
the route's ipRouteProto value. If this metric is not used, its value should
be set to \(mi1. (int) Returns a fixed value of \(mi1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMetric2
\(mi An alternate routing metric for this route. The
semantics of this metric are determined by the routing-protocol specified in
the route's ipRouteProto value. If this metric is not used, its value should
be set to \(mi1. (int) Returns a fixed value of \(mi1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMetric3
\(mi An alternate routing metric for this route. The
semantics of this metric are determined by the routing-protocol specified in
the route's ipRouteProto value. If this metric is not used, its value should
be set to \(mi1. (int) Returns a fixed value of \(mi1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMetric4
\(mi An alternate routing metric for this route. The
semantics of this metric are determined by the routing-protocol specified in
the route's ipRouteProto value. If this metric is not used, its value should
be set to \(mi1. (int) Returns a fixed value of \(mi1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteNextHop
\(mi The IP address of the next hop of this route. (In
the case of a route bound to an interface that is realized via a broadcast
media, the value of this field is the agent's IP address on that interface.)
(netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteType
\(mi The type of route. Note that the values direct (3)
and indirect (4) refer to the notion of direct and indirect routing in the
IP architecture. (enum)
.sp
.LP
Setting this object to the value invalid (2) has the effect of invalidating
the corresponding entry in the ipRouteTable object. That is, it effectively
dissociates the destination identified with said entry from the route
identified with said entry. It is an implementation-specific matter as to
whether the agent removes an invalidated entry from the table. Accordingly,
management stations must be prepared to receive tabular information from
agents that corresponds to entries not currently in use. Proper
interpretation of such entries requires examination of the relevant
ipRouteType object.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteProto
\(mi The routing mechanism through which this route was
learned. Inclusion of values for gateway routing protocols is not intended
to imply that hosts should support those protocols. (enum)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteAge
\(mi The number of seconds since this route was last
updated or otherwise determined to be correct. Note that no semantics of
"too old" can be implied except through knowledge of the routing protocol by
which the route was learned. (int) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMask
\(mi Indicate the mask to be logical-ANDed with the
destination address before being compared to the value in the ipRouteDest
field. For those systems that do not support arbitrary subnet masks, an
agent constructs the value of the ipRouteMask by determining whether the
value of the correspondent ipRouteDest field belongs to a class-A, B, or C
network, and then using one of:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
MaskNetwork
255.0.0.0class-A
255.255.0.0class-B
255.255.255.0class-C
.TE

.sp
.LP
If the value of the ipRouteDest is 0.0.0.0 (a default route), then the mask
value is also 0.0.0.0. It should be noted that all IP routing subsystems
implicitly use this mechanism. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteMetric5
\(mi An alternate routing metric for this route. The
semantics of this metric are determined by the routing-protocol specified in
the route's ipRouteProto value. If this metric is not used, its value should
be set to \(mi1. (int) Returns a fixed value of \(mi1.
.sp
.LP
.B ipRouteInfo
\(mi A reference to MIB definitions specific to the
particular routing protocol responsible for this route, as determined by the
value specified in the route's ipRouteProto value. If this information is
not present, its value should be set to the
.B "OBJECT IDENTIFIER"
{ 0 0 },
which is a syntactically valid object identifier. Any conformant
implementation of ASN.1 and BER must be able to generate and recognize this
value. (objectid)
.SS "ipNetToMediaTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipNetToMediaTable
is the IP Address Translation table used for
mapping from IP addresses to physical addresses.
.sp
.LP
.B ipNetToMediaIfIndex
\(mi The interface on which this entry's
equivalence is effective. The interface identified by a particular value of
this index is the same interface as identified by the same value of ifIndex.
(int)
.sp
.LP
.B ipNetToMediaPhysAddress
\(mi The media-dependent physical address.
(octet[128])
.sp
.LP
.B ipNetToMediaNetAddress
\(mi The IpAddress corresponding to the media-
dependent physical address. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B ipNetToMediaType
\(mi The type of mapping. (enum) Returns a fixed
value of (3)dynamic. Setting this object to the value invalid(2) has the
effect of invalidating the corresponding entry in the ipNetToMediaTable.
That is, it effectively dissociates the interface identified with said entry
from the mapping identified with said entry. It is an
implementation-specific matter as to whether the agent removes an
invalidated entry from the table. Accordingly, management stations must be
prepared to receive tabular information from agents that corresponds to
entries not currently in use. Proper interpretation of such entries requires
examination of the relevant ipNetToMediaType object.
.SS "icmp"
.sp
.LP
The
.B icmp
group reports statistics about the ICMP group.
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInMsgs
\(mi The total number of ICMP messages that the entity
received. Note that this counter includes all those counted by icmpInErrors.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInErrors
\(mi The number of ICMP messages that the entity
received but determined as having ICMP-specific errors (bad ICMP checksums,
bad length, and the like.). (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInDestUnreachs
\(mi The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable
messages received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInTimeExcds
\(mi The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInParmProbs
\(mi The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInSrcQuenchs
\(mi The number of ICMP Source Quench messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInRedirects
\(mi The number of ICMP Redirect messages received.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInEchos
\(mi The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages received.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInEchoReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages received.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInTimestamps
\(mi The number of ICMP Timestamp (request) messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInTimestampReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInAddrMasks
\(mi The number of ICMP Address Mask Request messages
received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpInAddrMaskReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply
messages received. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutMsgs
\(mi The total number of ICMP messages that this entity
attempted to send. Note that this counter includes all those counted by
icmpOutErrors. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutErrors
\(mi The number of ICMP messages that this entity did
not send due to problems discovered within ICMP, such as a lack of buffers.
This value should not include errors discovered outside the ICMP layer, such
as the inability of IP to route the resultant datagram. In some
implementations there may be no types of errors that contribute to this
counter's value. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutDestUnreachs
\(mi The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable
messages sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutTimeExcds
\(mi The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages sent.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutParmProbs
\(mi The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages
sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutSrcQuenchs
\(mi The number of ICMP Source Quench messages
sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutRedirects
\(mi The number of ICMP Redirect messages sent. For
a host, this object will always be zero, since hosts do not send redirects.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutEchos
\(mi The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages sent.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutEchoReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages sent.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutTimestamps
\(mi The number of ICMP Timestamp (request)
messages sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutTimestampReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages
sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutAddrMasks
\(mi The number of ICMP Address Mask Request
messages sent. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B icmpOutAddrMaskReps
\(mi The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply
messages sent. (counter)
.SS "tcp"
.sp
.LP
The
.B tcp
group reports statistics about the TCP group.
.sp
.LP
.B tcpRtoAlgorithm
\(mi The algorithm used to determine the timeout
value used for retransmitting unacknowledged octets. (enum)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpRtoMin
\(mi The minimum value permitted by a TCP implementation
for the retransmission timeout, measured in milliseconds. More refined
semantics for objects of this type depend upon the algorithm used to
determine the retransmission timeout. In particular, when the timeout
algorithm is rsre(3), an object of this type has the semantics of the
.B LBOUND
quantity described in RFC 793. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpRtoMax
\(mi The maximum value permitted by a TCP implementation
for the retransmission timeout, measured in milliseconds. More refined
semantics for objects of this type depend upon the algorithm used to
determine the retransmission timeout. In particular, when the timeout
algorithm is rsre(3), an object of this type has the semantics of the
.B UBOUND
quantity described in RFC 793. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpMaxConn
\(mi The limit on the total number of TCP connections that
the entity can support. In entities where the maximum number of connections
is dynamic, this object should contain the value -1. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpActiveOpens
\(mi The number of times that TCP connections have
made a direct transition to the
.B SYN-SENT
state from the
.BR CLOSED
state. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpPassiveOpens
\(mi The number of times that TCP connections have
made a direct transition to the
.B SYN-RCVD
state from the
.BR LISTEN
state. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpAttemptFails
\(mi The number of times that TCP connections have
made a direct transition to the
.B CLOSED
state from either the
.B SYN-SENT
state or the
.B SYN-RCVD
state, plus the number of times
TCP connections have made a direct transition to the
.B LISTEN
state from
the
.B SYN-RCVD
state. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpEstabResets
\(mi The number of times TCP connections have made a
direct transition to the
.B CLOSED
state from either the
.B ESTABLISHED
state or the
.B CLOSE-WAIT
state. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpCurrEstab
\(mi The number of TCP connections for which the current
state is either
.B ESTABLISHED
or CLOSE-WAIT. (gauge)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpInSegs
\(mi The total number of segments received, including those
received in error. This count includes segments received on currently
established connections. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpOutSegs
\(mi The total number of segments sent, including those on
current connections but excluding those containing only retransmitted
octets. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpRetransSegs
\(mi The total number of segments retransmitted - that
is, the number of TCP segments transmitted containing one or more previously
transmitted octets. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpInErrs
\(mi The total number of segments received in error (for
example, bad TCP checksums). (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpOutRsts
\(mi The number of TCP segments sent containing the RST
flag. (counter)
.SS "tcpConnTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B tcpConnTable
is a table containing TCP connection-specific
information.
.sp
.LP
.B tcpConnState
\(mi The state of this TCP connection. (enum)
.sp
.LP
The only value that may be set by a management station is deleteTCB(12).
Accordingly, it is appropriate for an agent to return a "badValue" response
if a management station attempts to set this object to any other value.
.sp
.LP
If a management station sets this object to the value deleteTCB(12), then
this has the effect of deleting the TCB (as defined in RFC 793) of the
corresponding connection on the managed node. This results in immediate
termination of the connection.
.sp
.LP
As an implementation-specific option, an RST segment may be sent from the
managed node to the other TCP endpoint. (Note, however, that RST segments
are not sent reliably.)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpConnLocalAddress
\(mi The local IP address for this TCP
connection. For a connection in the listen state that is willing to accept
connections for any IP interface associated with the node, the value 0.0.0.0
is used. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpConnLocalPort
\(mi The local port number for this TCP connection.
(int)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpConnRemAddress
\(mi The remote IP address for this TCP connection.
(netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B tcpConnRemPort
\(mi The remote port number for this TCP connection.
(int)
.SS "upd"
.sp
.LP
The
.B udp
group reports statistics about the UDP group.
.sp
.LP
.B udpInDatagrams
\(mi The total number of UDP datagrams delivered to
UDP users. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B udpNoPorts
\(mi The total number of received UDP datagrams for which
there was no application at the destination port. (counter) Returns a fixed
value of 0.
.sp
.LP
.B udpInErrors
\(mi The number of received UDP datagrams that could not
be delivered for reasons other than the lack of an application at the
destination port. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B udpOutDatagrams
\(mi The total number of UDP datagrams sent from this
entity. (counter) Returns a fixed value of 0.
.SS "udpTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B udpTable
is a table containing UDP listener information.
.sp
.LP
.B udpLocalAddress
\(mi The local IP address for this UDP listener. For
a UDP listener that is willing to accept datagrams for any IP interface
associated with the node, the value 0.0.0.0 is used. (netaddress)
.sp
.LP
.B udpLocalPort
\(mi The local port number for this UDP listener.
(int)
.SS "snmp"
.sp
.LP
The
.B snmp
group reports statistics about the SNMP group.
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInPkts
\(mi The total number of Messages delivered to the SNMP
entity from the transport service. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutPkts
\(mi The total number of SNMP Messages passed from the
SNMP protocol entity to the transport service. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInBadVersions
\(mi The total number of SNMP Messages delivered to
the SNMP protocol entity that were for an unsupported SNMP version.
(counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInBadCommunityNames
\(mi The total number of SNMP Messages
delivered to the SNMP protocol entity that used a SNMP community name not
known to said entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInBadCommunityUses
\(mi The total number of SNMP Messages
delivered to the SNMP protocol entity, which represented an SNMP operation
not allowed by the SNMP community named in the Message. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInASNParseErrs
\(mi The total number of ASN.1 or BER errors
encountered by the SNMP protocol entity when decoding received SNMP
Messages. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInTooBigs
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs delivered to the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"tooBig." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInNoSuchNames
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs delivered to the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"noSuchName." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInBadValues
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs delivered to the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"badValue." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInReadOnlys
\(mi The total number valid SNMP PDUs delivered to
the SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"readOnly." It should be noted that it is a protocol error to generate an
SNMP PDU that contains the value "readOnly" in the error-status field. This
object is provided as a means of detecting incorrect implementations of the
SNMP. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInGenErrs
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs delivered to the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"genErr." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInTotalReqVars
\(mi The total number of MIB objects successfully
retrieved by the SNMP protocol entity as the result of receiving valid SNMP
Get-Request and Get-Next PDUs. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInTotalSetVars
\(mi The total number of MIB objects successfully
altered by the SNMP protocol entity as the result of receiving valid SNMP
Set-Request PDUs. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInGetRequests
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Request PDUs
accepted and processed by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInGetNexts
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Next PDUs accepted
and processed by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInSetRequests
\(mi The total number of SNMP Set-Request PDUs
accepted and processed by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInGetResponses
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Response PDUs
accepted and processed by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpInTraps
\(mi The total number of SNMP Trap PDUs accepted and
processed by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutTooBigs
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs generated by the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"tooBig." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutNoSuchNames
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs generated by
the SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status is
"noSuchName." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutBadValues
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs generated by the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"badValue." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutGenErrs
\(mi The total number of SNMP PDUs generated by the
SNMP protocol entity for which the value of the error-status field is
"genErr." (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutGetRequests
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Request PDUs
which have been generated by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutGetNexts
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Next PDUs generated
by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutSetRequests
\(mi The total number of SNMP Set-Request PDUs
generated by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutGetResponses
\(mi The total number of SNMP Get-Response PDUs
generated by the SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpOutTraps
\(mi The total number of SNMP Trap PDUs generated by the
SNMP protocol entity. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B snmpEnableAuthenTraps
\(mi Indicates whether the SNMP agent process
is permitted to generate authentication-failure traps. The value of this
object overrides any configuration information. As such, it provides a means
whereby all authentication-failure traps may be disabled. (enum)
.sp
.LP
Note that this object must be stored in non-volatile memory, so that it
remains constant between reinitializations of the network management
system.
.sp
.LP
The following are Sun-specific group and table definitions.
.SS "sunSystem"
.sp
.LP
The
.B sunSystem
group reports general system information.
.sp
.LP
.B agentDescr
\(mi The SNMP agent's description of itself.
(string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B hostID
\(mi The unique Sun hardware identifier. The value returned is
four byte binary string. (octet[4])
.sp
.LP
.B motd
\(mi The first line of \fB/etc/motd\fR. (string[255])
.sp
.LP
.B unixTime
\(mi The UNIX system time. Measured in seconds since January
1, 1970 GMT. (counter)
.SS "sunProcessTable"
.sp
.LP
The
.B sunProcessTable
table reports UNIX process table information.
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessID
\(mi The process identifier for this process. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B psParentProcessID
\(mi The process identifier of this process's
parent. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessSize
\(mi The combined size of the data and stack segments
(in kilobytes.) (int)
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessCpuTime
\(mi The CPU time (including both user and system
time) consumed so far. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessState
\(mi The run-state of the process. (octet[4])
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
RRunnable
TStopped
PIn page wait
DNon-interruptable wait
SSleeping (less than 20 seconds)
IIdle (more than 20 seconds)
ZZombie
.TE

.sp
.LP
.B psProcessWaitChannel
\(mi Reason process is waiting. (octet[16])
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessTTY
\(mi Terminal, if any, controlling this process.
(octet[16])
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessUserName
\(mi Name of the user associated with this process.
(octet[16])
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessUserID
\(mi Numeric form of the name of the user associated
with this process. (int)
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessName
\(mi Command name used to invoke this process.
(octet[64])
.sp
.LP
.B psProcessStatus
\(mi Setting this variable will cause a signal of the
set value to be sent to the process. (int)
.SS "sunHostPerf"
.sp
.LP
The
.B sunHostPerf
group reports hostperf information.
.sp
.LP
.B rsUserProcessTime
\(mi Total number of timeticks used by user
processes since the last system boot. (counter)
.sp
.LP
\fBrsNiceModeTime\fR \(mi Total number of timeticks used by "nice" mode
since the last system boot. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsSystemProcessTime
\(mi Total number of timeticks used by system
processes since the last system boot. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIdleModeTime
\(mi Total number of timeticks in idle mode since the
last system boot. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsDiskXfer1
\(mi Total number of disk transfers since the last boot
for the first of four configured disks. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsDiskXfer2
\(mi Total number of disk transfers since the last boot
for the second of four configured disks. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsDiskXfer3
\(mi Total number of disk transfers since the last boot
for the third of four configured disks. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsDiskXfer4
\(mi Total number of disk transfers since the last boot
for the fourth of four configured disks. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsVPagesIn
\(mi Number of pages read in from disk. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsVPagesOut
\(mi Number of pages written to disk. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsVSwapIn
\(mi Number of pages swapped in. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsVSwapOut
\(mi Number of pages swapped out. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsVIntr
\(mi Number of device interrupts. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIfInPackets
\(mi Number of input packets. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIfOutPackets
\(mi Number of output packets. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIfInErrors
\(mi Number of input errors. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIfOutErrors
\(mi Number of output errors. (counter)
.sp
.LP
.B rsIfCollisions
\(mi Number of output collisions. (counter)
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/snmp/conf/snmpd.conf
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
configuration information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/snmp/conf/mibiisa.acl
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
access control file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/snmp/mib/sun.mib
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
standard SNMP MIBII file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWmibii
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR select (3C),
.BR recvfrom (3SOCKET),
.BR sendto (3SOCKET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot dispatch request
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The proxy cannot dispatch the request. The rest of the message indicates
the cause of the failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B select(3C) failed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A
.BR select (3C)
call failed. The rest of the message indicates the cause
of the failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sendto(3SOCKET) failed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A
.BR sendto (3SOCKET)
call failed. The rest of the message indicates the
cause of the failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B recvfrom(3SOCKET) failed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A
.BR recvfrom (3SOCKET)
call failed. The rest of the message indicates
the cause of the failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no response from system
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The SNMP agent on the target system does not respond to SNMP requests. This
error might indicate that the SNMP agent is not running on the target
system, the target system is down, or the network containing the target
system is unreachable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B response too big
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The agent could not fit the results of an operation into a single SNMP
message. Split large groups or tables into smaller entities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B missing attribute
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An attribute is missing from the requested group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bad attribute type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An object attribute type received from the SNMP agent that does not match
the attribute type specified by the proxy agent schema. The rest of the
message indicates the expected type and received type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot get sysUpTime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The proxy agent cannot get the variable
.I sysUpTime
from the SNMP
agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sysUpTime type bad
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The variable
.I sysUpTime
received from the SNMP agent has the wrong
data type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unknown SNMP error
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An unknown SNMP error was received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bad variable value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The requested specified an incorrect syntax or value for a set operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B variable is read only
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The SNMP agent did not perform the set request because a variable to set
may not be written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B general error
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A general error was received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot make request PDU
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred building a request PDU.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot make request varbind list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred building a request variable binding list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot parse response PDU
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred parsing a response PDU.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "request ID - response ID mismatch
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The response ID does not match the request ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B string contains non-displayable characters
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A displayable string contains non-displayable characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot open schema file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred opening the proxy agent schema file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot parse schema file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The proxy agent couldn't parse the proxy agent schema file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot open host file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred opening the file associated with the
.I na.snmp.hostfile
keyword in
.B /etc/snmp/conf/snmpd.conf
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot parse host file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The proxy agent was unable to parse the file associated with the
.I na.snmp.hostfile
keyword in
.BR /etc/snmp/conf/snm.conf .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B attribute unavailable for set operations
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The set could not be completed because the attribute was not available for
set operations.
.RE

.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility returns the wrong interface speed for the SBUS
FDDI interface (for example, "bf0").
.sp
.LP
The
.B mibiisa
utility does not return a MAC address for the SBUS FDDI
interface (for example, "bf0").
.sp
.LP
Process names retrieved from
.B mibiisa
contain a leading blank space.
.sp
.LP
When you change attribute values in the system group with an SNMP set
request, the change is effective only as long as
.B mibiisa
is running.
.B mibiisa
does not save the changes to
.BR /etc/snmp/conf/snmpd.conf .
