'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mkbootmedia 1M "23 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkbootmedia \- create bootable Solaris ISO image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mkbootmedia\fR \fB-v\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR] \fImedia-root\fR \fIiso\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkbootmedia
utility takes
.I media-root
(the root of an
on-disk Solaris install media) as input and creates a bootable Solaris ISO
image in the file
.IR iso ,
using
.BR mkisofs(8) .
The file can then be
burned onto a CD/DVD with utilities such as
.BR cdrw (1)
or
.BR cdrecord(1) .
(Neither \fBmkisofs(8)\fR nor \fBcdrecord(1)\fR are SunOS
man pages.)
.LP
Caution -
.sp
.RS 2
The directory tree
.I media-root
must contain the file
.BR boot/grub/stage2_eltorito ,
which will be written to the media boot
sectors. This file will be modified with some boot information, thus it must
be writable. If necessary, first save a copy prior to running this
utility.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets
.I label
as the label/volume name of the ISO image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose. Multiple
.B -v
options increase verbosity.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I media-root
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Top-level directory of an on-disk Solaris install media.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I iso
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the output file which will contain the resulting ISO image.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Creating an ISO Image and Burning a CD/DVD
.sp
.LP
The following commands create an ISO image from the content of
.BR s10u1
and burn the image to a CD/DVD.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fB/usr/bin/mkbootmedia s10u1 s10u1.iso\fR
# \fB/usr/bin/cdrw -i s10u1.iso\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cdrw (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fBmkisofs(8)\fR, (\fB/usr/share/man/man8/mkisofs.8\fR), in the
\fBSUNWfsman\fR package (not a SunOS man page)
