'\" te
.\" Copyright 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mkdevmaps 1M "8 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkdevmaps \- make device_maps entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mkdevmaps\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkdevmaps
command writes to standard out a set of
.BR device_maps (4)
entries describing the system's frame buffer, audio,
and removable media devices.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkdevmaps
command is used by the
.BR init.d (4)
scripts to
create or update the
.B /etc/security/device_maps
file.
.sp
.LP
Entries are generated based on the device special files found in
.BR /dev .
For the different categories of devices, the \fBmkdevmaps\fR
command checks for the following files under
.BR /dev :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
audio           /dev/audio, /dev/audioctl, /dev/sound/...
tape            /dev/rst*, /dev/nrst*, /dev/rmt/...
floppy          /dev/diskette, /dev/fd*, /dev/rdiskette, /dev/rfd*
removable disk  /dev/dsk/c0t?d0s?, /dev/rdsk/c0t?d0s?
frame buffer    /dev/fb
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR allocate (1),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B mkdevmaps
might not be supported in a future release of the Solaris
operating system.
