'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mkfs_udfs 1M "17 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkfs_udfs \- construct a udfs file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmkfs\fR \fB-F udfs\fR [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] \fIraw_device_file\fR
     [\fIsize\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This is the universal disk format file system
.RB ( udfs )
-specific module
of the \fBmkfs\fR command. \fBmkfs\fR constructs a
.B udfs
file system
with a root directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
See
.BR mkfs (1M)
for the list of supported
.IR generic_options .
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I specific_options
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Specify a
.BR udfs -specific
option. Specify \fBudfs\fR file system
specific options in a comma-separated list with no intervening spaces. If
invalid options are specified, a warning message is printed and the invalid
options are ignored.
.sp
The following
.I specific_options
are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B N
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Print the file system parameters without actually creating the file
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI label= string
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify the label to be written into the volume header structures. Specify
.I string
as the name of the label. If
.I string
is not specified, a
default
.I string
is generated in the form of
.BR *NoLabel* .
.RE

.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I raw_device_file
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
 Specify the disk partition on which to write.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I size
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Specify the number of 512-byte blocks in the file system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWudf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfsck\fR(1M),\fBmkfs\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
not currently a valid file system
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The specified device does not contain a valid
.B udfs
file system.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Invalid size: larger than the partition size
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Number of blocks given as parameter to create the file system is larger than
the size of the device specified.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
is mounted can't mkfs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Device is in use, cannot create file system when the device is in use.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
preposterous size
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Negative size parameter provided is invalid.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sector size must be between 512, 8192 bytes
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Sector size given is not in the valid range.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Volume integrity sequence descriptors too long
File set descriptor too long.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Not enough space to create volume integrity sequence or file set
descriptor.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mkfs: argument out of range
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
One of the arguments is out of range.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mkfs: bad numeric arg
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
One of the arguments is potentially a bad numeric.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.RB "You can use " lofiadm " to create a file that appears to a " mkfs 
command (for example,
.B mkfs_pcfs
or
.BR mkfs_ufs )
as a raw device. You
can then use a
.B mkfs
command to create a file system on that device. See
.BR lofiadm (1M)
for examples of creating a UFS and a PC (FAT) file system
on a device created by
.BR lofiadm .
