'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
.\" program (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);
.\" if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH mkntfs 1M "27 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkntfs \- create an NTFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmkntfs\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR [\fInumber_of_sectors\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmkntfs\fR [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcluster-size\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIheads\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-I\fR]
     [\fB-L\fR \fIvolume-label\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpart-start-sect\fR] [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-q\fR]
     [\fB-S\fR \fIsectors-per-track\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsector-size\fR] [\fB-T\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-z\fR \fImft-zone-multiplier\fR] [\fB--debug\fR] \fIdevice\fR [\fInumber-of-sectors\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkntfs
utility is used to create an NTFS file system on a device,
usually a disk partition, or file.  The
.I device
operand is the special
file corresponding to the device; for example,
.BR /dev/dsk/c0d0p0 .
The
.I number-of-sectors
operand is the number of blocks on the device. If
omitted,
.B mkntfs
automatically figures the file system size.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter
and full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an
argument can be combined. For example,
.B -fv
is the equivalent of
.BR "-f -v" .
A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix
of its name.
.sp
.LP
Options are divided among basic, advanced, output, and help options, as
listed below.
.SS "Basic Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -C ,
.B --enable-compression
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable compression on the volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -f ,
.B --fast
or
.BR -q ,
.B --quick
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Perform quick (fast) format. This option skips both  zeroing of the volume
and bad sector checking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -L ,
.B --label
.I string
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the volume label for the filesystem to
.IR string .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -n ,
.B --no-action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes
.B mkntfs
to not actually create a file system, but display what
it would do if it were to create a file system. All formatting steps are
carried out except the actual writing to the device.
.RE

.SS "Advanced Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -c ,
.B --cluster-size
.I bytes
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the size of clusters in bytes. Valid cluster size values are powers
of two, with at least 256, and at most 65536, bytes per cluster. If omitted,
.B mkntfs
uses 4096 bytes as the default cluster size.
.sp
Note that the default cluster size is set to be at least equal to the
sector size, as a cluster cannot be smaller than a sector. Also, note that
values greater than 4096 have the side effect that compression is disabled
on the volume. This is due to limitations in the NTFS compression algorithm
used by Windows.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -F ,
.B --force
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force
.B mkntfs
to run, even if the specified  device is not a block
special device, or appears to be mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -H ,
.B --heads
.I num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the number of heads. The maximum is 65535 (0xffff). If omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts to determine the number of heads automatically. If
that fails a default of 0 is used. Note that specifying
.I num
is
required for Windows to be able to boot from the created volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -I ,
.B --no-indexing
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable content indexing on the volume. This option is only meaningful on
Windows 2000 and later. Windows NT 4.0 and earlier ignore this, as they do
not implement content indexing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -p ,
.B --partition-start
.I sector
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the partition start sector. The maximum is 4294967295 (2^32-1). If
omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts to determine \fIsector\fRautomatically. If
that fails, a default of 0 is used. Note that specifying
.I sector
is
required for Windows to be able to boot from the created volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -S ,
.B --sectors-per-track
.I num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the number of sectors per track. The maximum is 65535 (0xffff). If
omitted, mkntfs attempts to  determine the number of sectors-per-track
automatically and if that fails a default of 0 is used. Note that
sectors-per-track is required for Windows to be able to boot from the
created volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -s ,
.B --sector-size
.I bytes
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the size of sectors in bytes. Valid sector size values are 256,
512, 1024, 2048, and 4096. If omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts to determine
the sector-size automatically. If that fails, a default of 512 bytes per
sector is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -T ,
.B --zero-time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fake the time to be 00:00:00 UTC, Jan 1, 1970, instead of the current
system time. This can be useful for debugging purposes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -z ,
.B --mft-zone-multiplier
.I num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the master file table (MFT) zone multiplier, which determines the size
of the MFT zone to use on the volume. The MFT zone is the area at the
beginning of the volume reserved for the MFT, which stores the on-disk
inodes (MFT records). It is noteworthy that small files are stored entirely
within the inode; thus, if you expect to use the volume for storing large
numbers of very small files, it is useful to set the zone multiplier to a
higher value. Although the MFT zone is resized on the fly as required during
operation of the NTFS driver, choosing an optimal value reduces
fragmentation. Valid values are
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.BR 3 ,
and
.BR 4 .
The
values have the following meaning:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MFT zone        MFT zone size
multiplier      (% of volume size)
1       12.5% (default)
2       25.0%
3       37.5%
4       50.0%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.SS "Output Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --debug
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Includes the verbose output from the
.B -v
option, as well as additional
output useful for debugging
.BR mkntfs .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -q ,
.B --quiet
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose execution. Errors are written to stderr, no output to stdout occurs
at all. Useful if
.B mkntfs
is run in a script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose execution.
.RE

.SS "Help Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -l ,
.B --license
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the
.B mkntfs
licensing information and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -V ,
.B --version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the
.B mkntfs
version number and exit.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWntfsprogs
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ntfsprogs (1M),
.BR ntfsresize (1M),
.BR ntfsundelete (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
.B mkntfs
was written by Anton Altaparmakov, Richard Russon, Erik Sornes
and Szabolcs Szakacsits.
