'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH modload 1M "1 Dec 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
modload \- load a kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmodload\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIexec_file\fR] \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B modload
command loads the loadable module  \fIfilename\fR into
the running system.
.sp
.LP
\fIfilename\fR is an object file produced by
.BR "ld -r" .
If
\fIfilename\fR is an absolute pathname then the file specified by that
absolute path is loaded. If  \fIfilename\fR does not begin with a slash
(\fB/\fR), then the path to load  \fIfilename\fR is relative to the current
directory unless the
.B -p
option is specified.
.sp
.LP
The kernel's
.B modpath
variable can be set using the
.BR /etc/system
file. The default value of the kernel's
.B modpath
variable is set to the
path where the operating system was loaded.  Typically this is \fB/kernel
/usr/kernel\fR.
.sp
.LP
For example, the following command looks for
.BR \&./drv/foo :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command looks for \fB/kernel/drv/foo\fR and then
.BR /usr/kernel/drv/foo :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload -p drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fI exec_file\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify the name of a shell script or  executable image file that is
executed after the module is successfully loaded.  The first argument passed
is the module ID (in decimal). The other argument is module specific. The
module specific information is: the block and character major numbers for
drivers, the system call number for system calls, or, for  other module
types, the index into the appropriate kernel table. See  \fBmodinfo\fR(1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Use the kernel's internal modpath variable as the search path for the
module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld (1),
.BR add_drv (1M),
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR modinfo (1M),
.BR modunload (1M),
.BR system (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR modldrv (9S),
.BR modlinkage (9S),
.BR modlstrmod (9S),
.BR module_info (9S)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use
.BR add_drv "(1M) to add device drivers, not"
.BR modload .
See\fR
for procedures on adding device drivers.
