'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH modunload 1M "19 Nov 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
modunload \- unload a module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmodunload\fR \fB-i\fR \fImodule_id\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIexec_file\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B modunload
unloads a loadable module from the running system. The
.I module_id
is the
.B ID
of the module as shown by \fBmodinfo\fR(1M).
If
.B ID
is
.BR 0 ,
all modules that were autoloaded which are
unloadable, are unloaded. Modules loaded by
.BR modload (1M)
are not
affected.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I exec_file
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify the name of a shell script or executable image file to be executed
before the module is unloaded. The first argument passed is the module id
(in decimal). There are two additional arguments that are module specific.
For loadable drivers, the second argument is the driver major number. For
loadable system calls, the second argument is the system call number. For
loadable exec classes, the second argument is the index into the
.B execsw
table. For loadable filesystems, the second argument is the
index into the
.B vfssw
table. For loadable streams modules, the second
argument is the index into the
.B fmodsw
table. For loadable scheduling
classes, the second argument is the index into the class array. Minus one is
passed for an argument that does not apply.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I module_id
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify the module to be unloaded.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR modinfo (1M),
.BR modload (1M),
.BR update_drv (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B modunload
command is often used on driver modules to force the
system to reread the associated driver configuration file. While this works
in the current Solaris release, it is not the supported way to reread the
configuration file and is not guaranteed to work in future releases. The
supported way for rereading driver configuration file is through the
.BR update_drv (1M)
command.
