'\" te
.\"  Based on mount_hsfs(1M), which is Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mount_pcfs 1M "12 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mount_pcfs \- mount pcfs file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmount\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR | \fImount_point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmount\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR \fImount_point\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B mount
attaches an
.B MS-DOS
file system (\fBpcfs\fR) to the file
system hierarchy at the
.IR mount_point ,
which is the pathname of a directory.
If
.I mount_point
has any contents prior to the
.B mount
operation, these
are hidden until the file system is unmounted.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pcfs
file system supports direct mounting of files containing the
file system as well as block devices. See
.BR mount (1M)
and
.BR lofiadm (1M).
.sp
.LP
If
.B mount
is invoked with
.I special
or
.I mount_point
as the only
arguments,
.B mount
will search
.B /etc/vfstab
to fill in the missing
arguments, including the
.IR FSType-specific_options ;
see
.BR mount (1M)
for
more details.
.sp
.LP
The
.I special
argument can be one of two special device file types:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A floppy disk, such as
.B /dev/diskette0
or
.BR /dev/diskette1 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A DOS logical drive on a hard disk expressed as
\fIdevice-name\fB:\fIlogical-drive\fR , where \fIdevice-name\fR specifies
the special block device-file for the whole disk and
.I logical-drive
is
either a drive letter (c through z) or a drive number (1 through 24). Examples
are \fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0p0:\fIc\fR and \fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0p0:\fI1\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.I special
device file type must have a formatted
.B MS-DOS
file
system with either a 12-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit File Allocation Table.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I generic_options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See \fBmount\fR(1M) for the list of supported options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify
.B pcfs
file system-specific options. The following options are
supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clamptime
|
.B noclamptime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File timestamps in
.B pcfs
cover a range between January 1st 1980 and
December 31st 2127. This is not equal to the range of
.B time_t
on Unix for
either 32-bit or 64-bit applications. In particular, 32-bit applications fail
with
.B EOVERFLOW
errors on the
.BR stat (2)
system call when timestamps
beyond the range of 32-bit
.B time_t
are encountered. In order to prevent
such spurious failures,
.B pcfs
by default clamps timestamps to the common
subset of possible
.B pcfs
timestamps and the range available to 32-bit
applications in Unix. The
.B clamptime
mount option therefore is active by
default. If you want access to the full range of possible timestamps on
.BR pcfs ,
mount the file system with the
.B noclamptime
mount option. Note
that if
.B noclamptime
is used, only 64-bit applications will have access to
timestamps beyond January 19th 2038, 03:14:06 UTC; 32-bit applications will
encounter
.B EOVERFLOW
errors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B foldcase
| \fBnofoldcase\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force uppercase characters in filenames to lowercase when reading them from the
filesystem. This is for compatibility with the previous behavior of
.BR pcfs .
The default is
.BR nofoldcase .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hidden
|
.B nohidden
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allow or disallow listing of files with hidden or system bits set. Option
.B hidden
is the default. When
.B nohidden
is effect, hidden and system
files are neither visible nor accessible. Note that PCFS in previous releases of
the Solaris operating system used the
.B nohidden
option as the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B atime
|
.B noatime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable or disable write access timestamps on DOS-formatted media. Default for
fixed disks is
.BR atime ,
while for removable media
.B noatime
is used. The
latter default is so that writes to flash-based media ("memory sticks") can be
minimized, to prolong lifetime.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtimezone=\fItimezone\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Timestamps on DOS-formatted media are recorded in the local time of the
recording system. This can cause confusion when accessing removable media in
which the recording and receiving system use different time zones. Use this
option to force media timestamps to be interpreted for a specific time zone. The
.B mount_pcfs
command converts the given time zone name into a numerical
offset that is passed to the
.B pcfs
kernel module, using the same rules as
described in
.BR environ (5)
for the
.B TZ
environment variable. By default,
the
.B timezone
value is taken from the
.B TZ
environment variable.
.RE

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mnttab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
table of mounted file systems
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/vfstab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
list of default parameters for each file system
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lofiadm (1M),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR mountall (1M),
.BR mount (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR time (2),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR vfstab (4),
\fBattributes
\fR(5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR pcfs (7FS)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than on top of the symbolic link itself.
