'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mountd 1M "27 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mountd \- server for NFS mount requests and NFS access checks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/mountd\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B mountd
is an
.B RPC
server that answers requests for
.BR NFS
access information and file system mount requests. It reads the file
.B /etc/dfs/sharetab
to determine which file systems are available for
mounting by which remote machines. See
.BR sharetab (4).
.B nfsd
running
on the local server will contact
.B mountd
the first time an
.BR NFS
client tries to access the file system to determine whether the client
should get read-write, read-only, or no access. This access can be dependent
on the security mode used in the remoted procedure call from the client. See
.BR share_nfs (1M).
.sp
.LP
The command also provides information as to what file systems are mounted
by which clients. This information can be printed using the
.BR showmount (1M)
command.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mountd
daemon is automatically invoked by
.BR share (1M).
.sp
.LP
Only super user can run the
.B mountd
daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The options shown below are supported for NVSv2/v3 clients. They are not
supported for Solaris NFSv4 clients.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Reject mount requests from clients. Clients that have file systems mounted
will not be affected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Run the command in verbose mode. Each time
.B mountd
determines what
access a client should get, it will log the result to the console, as well
as how it got that result.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dfs/sharetab
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
shared file system table
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfssu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nfsd (1M),
.BR share (1M),
.BR share_nfs (1M),
.BR showmount (1M),
.BR nfs (4),
.BR sharetab (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Since
.B mountd
must be running for
.B nfsd
to function properly,
.B mountd
is automatically started by the
.B svc:/network/nfs/server
service. See
.BR nfs (4).
.sp
.LP
Some routines that compare hostnames use case-sensitive string comparisons;
some do not. If an incoming request fails, verify that the case of the
hostname in the file to be parsed matches the case of the hostname called
for, and attempt the request again.
