'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mountall 1M "17 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mountall, umountall \- mount, unmount multiple file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmountall\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-l\fR | \fB-r\fR] [\fIfile_system_table\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBumountall\fR [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-l\fR | \fB-r\fR] [\fB-n\fR]  [\fB-Z\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBumountall\fR [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-Z\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmountall\fR is used to mount file systems specified in a file system
table. The file system table must be in
.BR vfstab (4)
format. If no
\fIfile_system_table\fR is specified, \fB/etc/vfstab\fR is used. If \(mi is
specified as
.IR file_system_table ,
\fBmountall\fR reads the file system
table from the standard input.
.B mountall
mounts only those file systems
with the
.B "mount at boot"
field set to
.B yes
in the
\fIfile_system_table\fR.
.sp
.LP
For each file system in the file system table, the following logic is
executed: if there exists a file\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fIFSType\fR/fsckall\fR,
where
.I FSType
is the type of the file system, save that file system in
a list to be passed later, and all at once, as arguments to the
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fIFSType\fR/fsckall\fR script. The
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fIFSType\fR/fsckall\fR script checks all of the file systems
in its argument list to determine whether they can be safely mounted. If no
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fIFSType\fR/fsckall\fR script exists for the \fIFSType\fR of
the file system, the file system is individually checked using
\fBfsck\fR(1M). If the file system does not appear mountable, it is fixed
using \fBfsck\fR before the mount is attempted. File systems with a \(mi
entry in the \fBfsckdev\fR field are mounted without first being checked.
.sp
.LP
\fBumountall\fR causes all mounted file systems in the current zone except
.BR root ,
.BR /usr ,
.BR /var ,
.BR /var/adm ,
.BR /var/run ,
.BR /proc ,
and \fB/dev/fd\fR to be unmounted. If the
.I FSType
is
specified,
.B mountall
and
.B umountall
limit their actions to the
\fIFSType\fR specified. There is no guarantee that \fBumountall\fR unmounts
\fIbusy\fR file systems, even if the \fB-k\fR option is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Specify the
.I FSType
of the file system to be mounted or unmounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Unmount all file systems listed in
.B /etc/mnttab
that are
remote-mounted from host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use the \fBfuser -k\fR
.I mount-point
command. See the
\fBfuser\fR(1M) for details. The \fB-k\fR option sends the \fBSIGKILL\fR
signal to each process using the file. As this option spawns kills for each
process, the kill messages might not show up immediately. There is no
guarantee that
.B umountall
unmounts
.I busy
file systems, even if the
\fB-k\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Limit the action to local file systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
List the actions that would be performed for the specified options, but do
not actually execute these actions. Repeating the command without the
\fB-n\fR option executes the listed actions, assuming that the
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR file has not changed in the interval prior to repeating
the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Limit the action to remote file system types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not perform the
.B umount
operation in parallel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Apply the action(s) only to the file systems  mounted in non-global zones.
By default,
.B umountall
unmounts only file systems mounted in the
current zone. Option
.B -Z
is ignored if used in a non-global zone.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mnttab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mounted file system table
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table of file system defaults
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fIFSType\fR/fsckall\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Script called by
.B mountall
to perform the file system check of all
file systems of type
.IR FSType
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
Output StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfsck\fR(1M), \fBfuser\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBmnttab\fR(4),
\fBvfstab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
No messages are printed if the file systems are mountable and clean.
.sp
.LP
Error and warning messages come from \fBfsck\fR(1M) and \fBmount\fR(1M).
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
At this time, NFS is the only remote file system supported by the \fB-l\fR,
.BR -r ,
and
.B -h
options.
