'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1994-2008 The FreeBSD Project. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH mount_smbfs 1M "31 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mount_smbfs, umount_smbfs \- mount and unmount a shared resource from a
CIFS file server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/umount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mount
utility attaches a named resource,
.IR resource ,
to the
file system hierarchy at the path name location,
.IR mount-point ,
which
must already exist.
.sp
.LP
If
.I mount-point
has any contents prior to the
.B mount
operation,
those contents remain hidden until the resource is unmounted. An authorized
user with the
.B SYS_MOUNT
privilege can perform a
.B mount
operation.
Also, a user can perform SMBFS mount operations on a directory the user
owns.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, you can specify
either
.I resource
or
.I mount-point
as the
.B mount
command will
consult the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file for more information. If the \fB-F\fR
option is omitted,
.B mount
takes the file system type from the entry in
the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is not listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, the command
line must specify both
.I resource
and
.IR mount-point .
.sp
.LP
The
.B umount
utility detaches a mounted file system from the file
system hierarchy. An authorized user with the
.B SYS_MOUNT
privilege can
perform a
.B umount
operation. Also, a user can perform SMBFS unmount
operations on a directory the user owns.
.sp
.LP
The
.B network/smb/client
service must be enabled to successfully mount
a CIFS share. This service is enabled, by default.
.sp
.LP
To enable the service, enter the following
.BR svcadm (1M)
command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm enable network/smb/client\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Operands"
.sp
.LP
The
.B mount
command supports the following operands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I resource
//[\fIworkgroup\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR/\fIshare\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.LP
The name of the resource to be mounted. In addition to its name, you can
specify the following information about the resource:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIpassword\fR is the password associated with
.IR user .
If
\fIpassword\fR is not specified, the mount first attempts to use the
password stored by the
.B "smbutil login"
command (if any). If that
password fails to authenticate, the \fBmount_smbfs\fR prompts you for a
password.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIserver\fR is the DNS or NetBIOS name of the remote computer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIshare\fR is the resource name on the remote server.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIuser\fR is the remote user name. If \fIuser\fR is omitted, the logged in
user ID is used.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIworkgroup\fR is the name of the workgroup or the Windows domain in which
the user name is defined.
.sp
If the resource includes a workgroup, you must escape the semicolon that
appears after the workgroup name to prevent it from being interpreted by the
command shell. For instance, surround the entire resource name with double
quotes: \fBmount -F smbfs "//SALES;george@RSERVER" /mnt\fR.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mount-point
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to the location where the file system is to be mounted or
unmounted. The
.B mount
command maintains a table of mounted file systems
in the
.B /etc/mnttab
file. See the
.BR mnttab (4)
man page.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
See the \fBmount\fR(1M) man page for the list of supported
.IR generic-options .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR or\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the file system-specific properties. You can specify more than one
name-value pair as a list of comma-separated pairs. No spaces are permitted
in the list. The properties are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdirperms=\fIoctaltriplet\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the permissions to be assigned to directories. The value must be
specified as an octal triplet, such as
.BR 755 .
The default value for the
directory mode is taken from the \fBfileperms\fR setting, with execute
permission added where \fBfileperms\fR has read permission.
.sp
Note that these permissions have no relation to the rights granted by the
CIFS server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfileperms=\fIoctaltriplet\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the permissions to be assigned to files. The value must be
specified as an octal triplet, such as
.BR 644 .
The default value is
.BR 700 .
.sp
Note that these permissions have no relation to the rights granted by the
CIFS server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBgid=\fIgroupid\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assigns the specified group ID to files. The default value is the group ID
of the directory where the volume is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBintr\fR|\fBnointr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable (or disable) cancellation of \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS) I/O operations when
the user interrupts the calling thread (for example, by hitting Ctrl-C while
an operation is underway). The default is
.B intr
(interruption enabled),
so cancellation is normally allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noprompt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppresses the prompting for a password when mounting a share. This
property enables you to permit anonymous access to a share. Anonymous access
does not require a password.
.sp
The
.B mount
operation fails if a password is required, the
\fBnoprompt\fR property is set, and no password is stored by the \fBsmbutil
login\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBretry_count=\fInumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of SMBFS retries to attempt before the connection is
marked as broken. By default, 4 attempts are made.
.sp
The
.B retry_count
property value set by the
.B mount
command
overrides the global value set in SMF or the value set in your
\fB\&.nsmbrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtimeout=\fIseconds\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the CIFS request timeout. By default, the timeout is 15
seconds.
.sp
The
.B timeout
property value set by the
.B mount
command overrides
the global value set in SMF or the value set in your \fB\&.nsmbrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBuid=\fIuserid\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assigns the specified user ID files. The default value is the owner ID of
the directory where the volume is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBxattr\fR|\fBnoxattr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable (or disable) Solaris Extended Attributes in this mount point. This
option defaults to
.B xattr
(enabled Extended Attributes), but note: if
the CIFS server does not support CIFS "named streams", \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS)
forces this option to
.BR noxattr .
When a mount has the
.BR noxattr
option, attempts to use Solaris Extended attributes fail with EINVAL.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -O
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overlays mount. Allow the file system to be mounted over an existing mount
point, making the underlying file system inaccessible. If a mount is
attempted on a pre-existing mount point without setting this flag, the mount
fails, producing the error "device busy."
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Mounting an SMBFS Share
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to mount the
.B /tmp
share from the
\fBnano\fR server in the \fBSALES\fR workgroup on the local \fB/mnt\fR mount
point. You must supply the password for the
.B root
user to successfully
perform the mount operation.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount -F smbfs "//SALES;root@nano.sfbay/tmp" /mnt\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Verifying That an SMBFS File System Is Mounted
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to mount the
.B /tmp
share from the
\fBnano\fR server on the local \fB/mnt\fR mount point. You must supply the
password for the
.B root
user to successfully perform the mount
operation.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount -F smbfs //root@nano.sfbay/tmp /mnt\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
You can verify that the share is mounted in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the file system entry in the
.B /etc/mnttab
file.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBgrep root /etc/mnttab\fR
//root@nano.sfbay/tmp   /mnt    smbfs   dev=4900000     1177097833
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the output of the
.B mount
command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount | grep root\fR
/mnt on //root@nano.sfbay/tmp read/write/setuid/devices/dev=4900000 on
Fri Apr 20 13:37:13 2007
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the output of the \fBdf /mnt\fR command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdf /mnt\fR
/mnt               (//root@nano.sfbay/tmp): 3635872 blocks       -1 files
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.sp
.LP
Obtain information about the mounted share by viewing the output of the
\fBdf -k /mnt\fR command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdf -k /mnt\fR
Filesystem            kbytes    used   avail capacity  Mounted on
//root@nano.sfbay/tmp
                      1882384   64448 1817936     4%    /mnt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Unmounting a CIFS Share
.sp
.LP
This example assumes that a CIFS share has been mounted on the
.BR /mnt
mount point. The following command line unmounts the share from the mount
point.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBumount /mnt\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mnttab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table of mounted file systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default distributed file system type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table of automatically mounted resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User-settable mount point configuration file to store the description for
each connection.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See the
.BR attributes (5)
man page for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsmbfscu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR smbutil (1),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR mountall (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR acl (2),
\fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBlink\fR(2),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR mount (2),
.BR symlink (2),
.BR umount (2),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR nsmbrc (4),
.BR vfstab (4),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBpcfs\fR(7FS), \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
This manual page contains material originally authored by Boris Popov,
.BR bpATbutya.kz ,
.BR bpATFreeBSD.org .
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Solaris CIFS client always attempts to use
.B gethostbyname()
to
resolve host names. If the host name cannot be resolved, the CIFS client
uses NetBIOS name resolution (NBNS). By default, the Solaris CIFS client
permits the use of NBNS to enable Solaris CIFS clients in Windows
environments to work without additional configuration.
.sp
.LP
Since NBNS has been exploited in the past, you might want to disable it. To
disable NBNS, set the
.B nbns-enabled
service management facility
property to
.BR false .
By default,
.B nbns-enabled
is set to
.BR true .
.sp
.LP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a symbolic
link, the file system is mounted on the directory to which the symbolic link
refers, rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
