'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mvdir 1M "14 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mvdir \- move a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mvdir\fR \fIdirname\fR \fIname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B mvdir
moves directories within a file system.
.B dirname
must be a
directory. If
.I name
does not exist, it will be created as a directory. If
.I name
does exist, and is a directory,
.B dirname
will be created as
.IR name/dirname .
.B dirname
and
.I name
may not be on the same path;
that is, one may not be subordinate to the other. For example:
.sp
.LP
.B "example% mvdir" x/y x/z
.sp
.LP
is legal, but
.sp
.LP
.B "example% mvdir" x/y x/y/z
.sp
.LP
is not.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dirname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The name of the directory that is to be moved to another directory in the
filesystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The name of the directory into which
.B dirname
is to be moved. If
.I name
does not exist, it will be created. It may not be on the same path
as
.BR dirname .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR mvdir
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
