'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Internet Software Consortium.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH named 1M "6 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
named, in.named \- Internet domain name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnamed\fR [\fB-fgsv\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIconfig-file\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdebug-level\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIflag\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fI#cpus\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIdirectory\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fIcache-file\fR] [\fB-4\fR | \fB-6\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B named
utility is a Domain Name System (DNS) server, part of the
BIND 9 distribution from ISC. For more information on the DNS, see RFCs
1033, 1034, and 1035.
.sp
.LP
When invoked without arguments,
.B named
reads the default configuration
file
.BR /etc/named.conf ,
reads any initial data, and listens for
queries.
.sp
.LP
.B in.named
is a link to
.BR named .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -4
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use only IPv4 transport. By default, both IPv4 and IPv6 transports can be
used. Options
.B -4
and
.B -6
are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -6
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use only IPv6 transport. By default, both IPv4 and IPv6 transports can be
used. Options
.B -4
and
.B -6
are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I config-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I config-file
as the configuration file instead of the default
.BR /etc/named.conf .
To ensure that reloading the configuration file
continues to work after the server has changed its working directory due to
to a possible
.I directory
option in the configuration file,
.I config-file
should be an absolute pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I debug-level
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the daemon's debug level to
.IR debug-level .
Debugging traces from
.B named
become more verbose as the debug level increases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run the server in the foreground (that is, do not daemonize).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run the server in the foreground and force all logging to
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I flag
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turn on memory usage debugging flags. Possible flags are "\fBusage\fR",
"\fBtrace\fR", and "\fBrecord\fR". These correspond to the
.BI ISC_MEM_DEBUG XXXX
flags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I #cpus
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create
.I #cpus
worker threads to take advantage of multiple CPUs. If
not specified,
.B named
will try to determine the number of CPUs present
and create one thread per CPU. If it is unable to determine the number of
CPUs, a single worker thread will be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I port
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Listen for queries on port
.IR port .
If not specified, the default is
port 53.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write memory usage statistics to
.I stdout
on exit.
.sp
This option is mainly of interest to BIND 9 developers and might be removed
or changed in a future release.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I directory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the root directory using
.BR chroot (2)
to
.I directory
after
processing the command line arguments, but before reading the configuration
file.
.sp
This option should be used in conjunction with the
.B -u
option, as
chrooting a process running as root doesn't enhance security on most
systems; the way
.B chroot()
is defined allows a process with root
privileges to escape a chroot jail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I user
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the real user ID using
.BR setuid (2)
to
.I user
after completing
privileged operations, such as creating sockets that listen on privileged
ports.
.sp
On Linux,
.B named
uses the kernel's capability mechanism to drop all
root privileges except the ability to use
.BR bind "(3SOCKET) to bind to a"
privileged port and set process resource limits. Unfortunately, this means
that the
.B -u
option works only when
.B named
is run on kernel 2.2.18
or later, or kernel 2.3.99-pre3 or later, since previous kernels did not
allow privileges to be retained after
.BR setuid() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the version number and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I cache-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Load data from
.I cache-file
into the cache of the default view.
.sp
This option must not be used. It is of interest only to BIND 9 developers
and might be removed or changed in a future release.
.RE

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This section describes additional attributes of
.BR named .
.SS "SMF Properties"
.sp
.LP
When starting named from the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
.B named
configuration is read from the service configuration repository.
Use
.BR svcprop (1)
to list the properties and
.BR svccfg (1M)
to make
changes.
.sp
.LP
The following application configuration properties are available to
administrators:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIserver\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the server executable to be used instead of the default server,
.BR /usr/sbin/named .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIconfiguration_file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the configuration file to be used instead of the default,
.BR /etc/named.conf .
A directory option might be specified in the
configuration file. To ensure that reloading the configuration file
continues to work in such a situation,
.I configuration_file
should be
specified as an absolute pathname. This pathname should not include the
.I chroot_dir
pathname. This property is the equivalent of the
.B -c
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIip_interfaces\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies over which IP transport, IPv4 or IPv6, BIND will transmit.
Possible values are
.B IPv4
or
.BR IPv6 .
Any other setting assumes
.BR all ,
the default. This property is the equivalent of command line
option
.B -4
or
.BR -6
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIlisten_on_port\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the default UDP and TCP port to be used for listening to DNS
requests. This property is the equivalent of the command line option
.B -p
.IR port .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIdebug_level\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the default debug level. The default is 0, which means no
debugging. The higher the number the more verbose debug information becomes.
Equivalent of the command line option
.B -d
.IR debug_level .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIthreads\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of CPU worker threads to create. The default of 0
causes
.B named
to try and determine the number of CPUs present and
create one thread per CPU. Equivalent of command line option
.B -n
.IR #cpus .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoptions\fR/\fIchroot_dir\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the directory to be used as the root directory after processing
SMF properties and the command line arguments but before reading the
configuration file. Use this property when using a
.BR chroot (2)
environment. Synonymous to command line option
.B -t
.IR pathname .
.sp
When using
.BR chroot (2),
.B named
is unable to disable itself when
receiving
.BR rndc (1M)
.B stop
or
.B halt
commands. Instead, you
must use the
.BR svcadm (1M)
.B disable
command.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In the event of a configuration error originating in one of the above SMF
application options,
.B named
displays a message providing information
about the error and the parameters that need correcting. The process then
exits with exit code
.BR SMF_EXIT_ERR_CONFIG .
.sp
.LP
At startup, in the event of an error other than a configuration error,
.B named
exits with exit code
.BR SMF_EXIT_ERR_FATAL .
Both of this code
and
.B SMF_EXIT_ERR_CONFIG
cause the start method,
.BR smf_method (5),
to place the service in the maintenance state, which can be observed with
the
.BR svcs (1)
command
.BR "svcs -x" .
.sp
.LP
In addition to the properties listed above, the following property can be
used to invoke
.B named
as a user other than root:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstart\fR/\fIuser\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the identity of the user that is invoking
.BR named .
See
.BR smf_method (5)
and
.BR chroot (2).
Note that the user must have
.B solaris.smf.manage.bind
authorization. Without this role the
.B named
will be unable to manage its SMF FMRI and
.B named
will
automatically be restarted by the SMF after an
.BR rndc (1M)
.B stop
or
.B halt
command. See
.B EXAMPLES
for a sequence of commands that
establishes the correct authorization.
.RE

.SS "SIGNALS"
.sp
.LP
In routine operation, signals should not be used to control the nameserver;
.BR rndc (1M)
should be used instead.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGHUP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force a reload of the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR SIGINT ,
.B SIGTERM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shut down the server.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The result of sending any other signals to the server is undefined.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The
.B named
configuration file is too complex to describe in detail
here. A list of configuration options is provided in the
.B named.conf
man page shipped with the BIND 9 distribution. A complete description is
provided in the
.IR "BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual" .
See \fBSEE ALSO\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Configuring
.B named
to Transmit Only over IPv4
Networks
.sp
.LP
The following command sequence configures
.B named
such that it will
transmit only over IPv4 networks.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:network/dns/server:default setprop \e\fR
\fB> options/ip_interfaces=IPv4\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:network/dns/server:default\fR
#
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing Current Configuration File and Setting an
Alternative File
.sp
.LP
The following sequence of commands lists the current
.BR named
configuration file and sets an alternative file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcprop -p options/configuration_file dns/server:default\fR
/etc/named.conf
# \fBsvccfg -s dns/server:default setprop \e
> options/configuration_file=/var/named/named.conf\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh dns/server:default\fR
# \fBsvcprop -p options/configuration_file dns/server:default\fR
/var/named/named.conf
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Establishing Appropriate Authorization for
.BR named
.sp
.LP
To have
.B named
start with the
.B solaris.smf.manage.bind
authorization, perform the steps shown below.

.sp
.LP
Add the user
.B dnsadmin
to the
.B solaris.smf.manage.bind
role:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -A solaris.smf.manage.bind dnsadmin\fR
\fBObserve effect of command:\fR
# \fBtail -1 /etc/user_attr\fR
dnsadmin::::type=normal;auths=solaris.smf.manage.bind
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Modify the service properties:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg\fR
svc:> \fBselect svc:/network/dns/server:default\fR
svc:/network/dns/server:default> \fBsetprop start/user = dnsadmin\fR
svc:/network/dns/server:default> \fBsetprop start/group = dnsadmin\fR
svc:/network/dns/server:default> \fBexit\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/network/dns/server:default\fR
# \fBsvcadm restart svc:/network/dns/server:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Because only root has write access to create the default process-ID file,
.BR /var/run/named.pid ,
.B named
must be configured to use an
alternative path for the user
.BR dnsadmin .
Here is an example of how to
accomplish this:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmkdir /var/named/tmp\fR
# \fBchown dnsadmin /var/named/tmp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Shown below is what you must add to
.B named.conf
to make use of the
directory created above.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhead /etc/named.conf\fR
options {
directory "/var/named";
pid-file "/var/named/tmp/named.pid";
};
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/named.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/run/named.pid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default process-ID file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbind
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR rndc (1M),
.BR rndc-confgen (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svcprop (1),
.BR chroot (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR bind (3SOCKET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_method (5)
.sp
.LP
.IR "RFC 1033" ,
.IR "RFC 1034" ,
.I RFC 1035
.sp
.LP
.IR "BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual" ,
published by the Internet
Systems Consortium and accessible at
.BR www.bind9.net
.sp
.LP
.B named.conf
man page shipped with the BIND 9 distribution
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B named
attempts to contact remote name servers by either
their IPv4 or IPv6 address, even though the host system does not have either
IPv4 or IPv6 connectivity (that is, a configured and active interface). To
address this issue, either provide the missing connectivity or use the
relevant
.B -4
or
.B -6
command line option. When using
.BR svccfg (1M),
set application property \fBoptions\fR/\fIip_interfaces\fR
to either
.B IPv4
or
.BR IPv6 .
