'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nfs4cbd 1M "11 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nfs4cbd \- NFS Version 4 callback daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/nfs4cbd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nfs4cbd
daemon manages communication endpoints for the NFS
Version 4 protocol callback program.
.B nfs4cbd
runs on the NFS Version 4
client and creates a listener port for each transport over which callbacks
can be sent.
.sp
.LP
The
.B nfs4cbd
daemon is provided for the exclusive use of the NFS
version 4 client.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfscu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR mount_nfs (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B nfs4cbd
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/nfs/cbd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
If it is disabled, it will be enabled by
.BR mount_nfs (1M)
and
.BR automountd (1M)
on the first NFSv4 mount, unless its
.B application/auto_enable
property is set to
.BR false .
.sp
.LP
This daemon might not exist in a future release of Solaris.
