'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nfsd 1M "22 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nfsd \- NFS daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/nfsd\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fI#_conn\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlisten_backlog\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fInservers\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnfsd\fR is the daemon that handles client file system requests. Only
users with \fB{PRIV_SYS_NFS}\fR and sufficient privileges to write to
\fB/var/run\fR can run this daemon.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnfsd\fR daemon is automatically invoked using
.BR share (1M)
with
the
.B -a
option.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBnfsd\fR starts over the TCP and UDP transports for versions
2 and 3. By default, it starts over the TCP for version 4. You can change
this with the
.B -p
option.
.sp
.LP
A previously invoked \fBnfsd\fR daemon started with or without options must
be stopped before invoking another \fBnfsd\fR command.
.sp
.LP
To change startup parameters for
.BR nfsd ,
use the
.BR sharectl "(1M) and"
.BR sharemgr (1M)
commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Start a
.B NFS
daemon over all available connectionless and
connection-oriented transports, including UDP and TCP. Equivalent of setting
the
.B NFSD_PROTOCOL
parameter to
.B ALL
in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fI#_conn\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This sets the maximum number of connections allowed to the
.B NFS
server
over connection-oriented transports. By default, the number of connections
is unlimited. Equivalent of the
.B NFSD_MAX_CONNECTIONS
parameter in the
\fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Set connection queue length for the
.B "NFS TCP"
over a
connection-oriented transport. The default value is 32 entries. Equivalent
of the
.B NFSD_LISTEN_BACKLOG
parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Start a
.B NFS
daemon over the specified protocol. Equivalent of the
\fBNFSD_PROTOCOL\fR parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fIdevice\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Start a
.B NFS
daemon for the transport specified by the given device.
Equivalent of the
.B NFSD_DEVICE
parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nservers
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This sets the maximum number of concurrent
.B NFS
requests that the
.RI "server can handle. This concurrency is achieved by up to" " nservers"
threads created as needed in the kernel.
.I nservers
should be based on
the load expected on this server. 16 is the usual number of \fInservers\fR.
If
.I nservers
is not specified, the maximum number of concurrent
\fBNFS\fR requests will default to 1. Equivalent of the \fBNFSD_SERVERS\fR
parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the
.B NFS_PORTMON
variable is set in
.BR /etc/system ,
then clients
are required to use privileged ports
.RB "(ports < " IPPORT_RESERVED )
to get
\fBNFS\fR services. This variable is equal to zero by default. This variable
has been moved from the "nfs" module to the "nfssrv" module. To set the
variable, edit the
.B /etc/system
file and add this entry:
.sp
.LP
\fBset nfssrv:nfs_portmon\fR \fB= 1\fR
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Daemon started successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Daemon failed to start.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.nfs\fIXXX\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Client machine pointer to an open-but-unlinked file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/default/nfs\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Contains startup parameters for \fBnfsd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/system
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
System configuration information file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/nfs/v4_state\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB/var/nfs/v4_oldstate\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Directories used by the server to manage client state information. These
directories should not be removed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfssu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ps (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR mountd (1M),
.BR share (1M),
.BR sharectl (1M),
.BR sharemgr (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
\fBnfs\fR(4),
.BR sharetab (4),
.BR system (4),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Manually starting and restarting \fBnfsd\fR is not recommended. If it is
necessary to do so, use
.B svcadm
to enable or disable the \fBnfs\fR
service (\fBsvc:/network/nfs/server\fR). If it is disabled, it will be
enabled by \fBshare_nfs\fR(1M), unless its \fBapplication/auto_enable\fR
property is set to
.BR false .
See the\fR , and \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) for
more information.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnfsd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/nfs/server
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
If \fBnfsd\fR is killed with
.BR SIGTERM ,
it will not be restarted by the
service management facility. Instead, \fBnfsd\fR can be restarted by other
signals, such as \fBSIGINT\fR.
