'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisauthconf 1M "12 Dec 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nisauthconf \- configure NIS+ security
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisauthconf\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fImechanism\fR,]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nisauthconf
controls which authentication flavors NIS+ should use
when communicating with other NIS+ clients and servers. If the command is
not executed, then NIS+ will default to the
.B AUTH_DES
authentication
flavor when running security level 2. See
.BR rpc.nisd (1M).
.sp
.LP
.B nisauthconf
takes a list of authentication
.IR mechanism "'s in order"
of preference. An authentication
.I mechanism
may use one or more
authentication flavors listed below. If
.B des
is the only specified
mechanism, then NIS+ only use
.B AUTH_DES
with other NIS+ clients and
servers. If
.B des
is the first mechanism, then other authentication
\fImechanism\fR's after
.B des
will be ignored by NIS+, except for
.BR nisaddcred (1M).
After changing the mechanism configuration, the
.BR keyserv (1M)
daemon must be restarted. Note that doing so will remove
encryption keys stored by the running
.B keyserv
process. This means that
a
.B reboot
usually is the safest option when the mechanism configuration
has been changed.
.sp
.LP
The following mechanisms are available:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
Authentication \fImechanism\fRAuthentication Flavor
_
des\fBAUTH_DES\fR
_
dh640-0T{
\fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR using 640-bit Diffie-Hellman keys
T}
_
dh1024-0T{
\fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR using 1024-bit Diffie-Hellman keys
T}
.TE

.sp
.LP
If no mechanisms are specified, then a list of currently configured
mechanisms is printed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays a verbose table listing the currently configured authentication
mechanisms.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Configuring a System with only
.BR RPCSEC_GSS
Authentication Flavor
.sp
.LP
To configure a system to use only the
.B RPCSEC_GSS
authentication
flavor with 640-bit Diffie-Hellman keys, execute the following as root:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fB/usr/lib/nis/nisauthconf dh640-0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Configuring a System with both
.B RPCSEC_GSS
and
.B AUTH_DES
Authentication Flavors
.sp
.LP
To configure a system to use both
.B RPCSEC_GSS
(with 640-bit
Diffie-Hellman keys) and
.B AUTH_DES
authentication flavors:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fB/usr/lib/nis/nisauthconf dh640-0 des\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Transitioning to Other Authentication Flavors
.sp
.LP
The following example can be used while adding credentials for a new
mechanism before NIS+ is authenticating with the new mechanism:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fB/usr/lib/nis/nisauthconf des dh640-0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that except for
.BR nisaddcred "(1M), NIS+ will not use mechanisms"
that follow '\fBdes\fR.'

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/rpcsec/nisplussec.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
NIS+ authentication configuration file. This file may change or be removed
in future versions of Solaris.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR keyserv (1M),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
.BR rpc.nisd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
A NIS+ client of a server that is configured for either dh640-0 or dh1024-0
must run Solaris 7 or later, even if the server is also configured with
.BR des .
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
