'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisaddcred 1M "12 Dec 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nisaddcred \- create NIS+ credentials
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisaddcred\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIprincipal\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fInis_principal\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlogin_password\fR] \fIauth_type\fR [\fIdomain_name\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisaddcred\fR \fB-r\fR [\fInis_principal\fR] [\fIdomain_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nisaddcred
command is used to create security credentials for
NIS+ principals. NIS+ credentials serve two purposes. The first is to
provide authentication information to various services; the second is to map
the authentication service name into a NIS+ principal name.
.sp
.LP
When the
.B nisaddcred
command is run, these credentials get created and
stored in a table named
.B cred.org_dir
in the default NIS+ domain. If
\fIdomain_name\fR is specified, the entries are stored in the
\fBcred.org_dir\fR of the specified domain. The specified domain must either
be the one to which you belong, or one in which you are authenticated and
authorized to create credentials, that is, a subdomain. Note that the
credentials of normal users must be stored in the same domain as their
passwords.
.sp
.LP
It is simpler to add credentials using
.BR nisclient "(1M), because it"
obtains the required information itself. \fBnispopulate\fR(1M) is used for
"bulk" updates and can also be used to add credentials for entries in the
\fBhosts\fR and the \fBpasswd\fR NIS+ tables.
.sp
.LP
NIS+ principal names are used in specifying clients that have access rights
to NIS+ objects. For more details, refer to the "Principal Names" subsection
of the
.BR NIS+ (1)
manual page. See
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischown (1),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
and
.BR nis_groups "(3NSL). Various other services"
can also implement access control based on these principal names.
.sp
.LP
The
.B cred.org_dir
table is organized as follows:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.06i) lw(.93i) lw(1.32i) lw(1.06i) lw(1.14i)
lw(1.06i) lw(.93i) lw(1.32i) lw(1.06i) lw(1.14i)
.
\fBcname\fR\fBauth_type\fR\fBauth_name\fR\fBpublic_data\fR\fBprivate_data\fR
_
user1.foo.com.LOCAL299010,102,44
_
user1.foo.com.DESunix.2990@foo.com098.\|.\|.8193b8.\|.\|.ab2
_
user1.foo.com.DHmmm-nunix.2990@foo.com248.\|.\|.428a42.\|.\|.f32
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B cname
column contains a canonical representation of the NIS+
principal name. By convention, this name is the login name of a user, or the
host name of a machine, followed by a dot ('.') followed by the fully
qualified "home" domain of that principal. For users, the home domain is
defined to be the domain where their
.B DES
credentials are kept. For
hosts, their home domain is defined to be the domain name returned by the
.BR domainname (1M)
command executed on that host.
.sp
.LP
There are two basic types of
.I auth_type
entries in the
\fBcred.org_dir\fR table, those with authentication type \fBLOCAL,\fR and
those with authentication type
.BR DES,
.IR auth_type ,
specified on the
command line in upper or lower case, should be either
.I local
or
.BR des .
.sp
.LP
However, the
.B cred.org_dir
table may also be used to hold data for
other values of
.IR auth_type .
Currently, this is limited to the
mechanisms listed on the \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M) man page, for which the
.B nisaddcred
.I auth_type
argument is the same as the name of the
mechanism. These mechanisms use a modified form of Secure RPC, and they are
similar to the
.B DES
authentication type.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I auth_type
is
.BR des ,
and other authentication mechanisms
are configured with \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M), then credential entries are added
or updated for each mechanism configured. To only add or update 1992-bit
Diffie Hellman credentials, that is, those with the
.I auth_type
of
\fBDES,\fR use dh192-0 on the command line. If there are no authentication
mechanisms configured, using
.B des
on the command line will only add or
update 192-bit Diffie Hellman credentials.
.sp
.LP
Entries of type
.B LOCAL
are used by the
.B NIS+
service to determine
the correspondence between fully qualified
.B NIS+
principal names and
users identified by
.B UIDs
in the domain containing the
\fBcred.org_dir\fR table. This correspondence is required when associating
requests made using the
.B AUTH_SYS
RPC authentication flavor (see
.BR rpc_clnt_auth (3NSL))
to a NIS+ principal name. It is also required for
mapping a
.B " UID"
in one domain to its fully qualified NIS+ principal
name whose home domain may be elsewhere. The principal's credentials for any
authentication flavor may then be sought for within the
.BR cred.org_dir
table in the principal's home domain (extracted from the principal name).
The same
.B NIS+
principal may have
.B LOCAL
credential entries in
.RB "more than one domain. Only users, and not machines, have" " LOCAL"
credentials. In their home domain, users of
.B NIS+
should have both
types of credentials.
.sp
.LP
The
.I auth_name
associated with the
.B LOCAL
type entry is a
\fBUID\fR that is valid for the principal in the domain containing the
\fBcred.org_dir\fR table. This may differ from that in the principal's home
domain. The public information stored in
.I public_data
for this type
contains a list of
.B GIDs
for groups in which the user is a member. The
\fBGIDs\fR also apply to the domain in which the table resides. There is no
private data associated with this type. Neither a
.B UID
nor a principal
name should appear more than once among the
.B LOCAL
entries in any one
\fBcred.org_dir\fR table.
.sp
.LP
The
.B DES
\fIauth_type\fR is used for Secure RPC authentication (see
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL)).
.sp
.LP
The authentication name associated with the
.B DES
\fIauth_type\fR is a
Secure RPC
.IR netname .
A Secure RPC netname has the form
\fBunix.\fBid\fB@\fIdomain.com,\fR where \fIdomain\fR must be the
same as the domain of the principal. For principals that are users the
\fBid\fR must be the \fBUID\fR of the principal in the principal's home
domain. For principals that are hosts, the
.B id
is the host's name. In
Secure RPC, processes running under effective
.B UID
0 (root) are
identified with the host principal. Unlike
.BR LOCAL ,
there cannot be more
than one
.B DES
credential entry for one NIS+ principal in the NIS+
namespace.
.sp
.LP
The public information in an entry of authentication type
.B DES
is the
public key for the principal. The private information in this entry is the
private key of the principal encrypted by the principal's network
password.
.sp
.LP
User clients of NIS+ should have credentials of both types in their home
domain. In addition, a principal must have a
.B LOCAL
entry in the
\fBcred.org_dir\fR table of each domain from which the principal wishes to
make authenticated requests. A client of NIS+ that makes a request from a
domain in which it does not have a
.B LOCAL
entry will be unable to
acquire
.B DES
credentials. A NIS+ service running at security level 2 or
higher will consider such users unauthenticated and assign them the name
\fInobody\fR for determining access rights.
.sp
.LP
This command can only be run by those NIS+ principals who are authorized to
add or delete the entries in the
.B cred
table.
.sp
.LP
If credentials are being added for the caller itself, \fBnisaddcred\fR
automatically performs a keylogin for the caller.
.sp
.LP
You can list the
.B cred
entries for a particular principal with
.BR nismatch (1).
.sp
.LP
The
.B "cred.org_dir NIS+"
table replaces the maps
\fIpublickey.byname\fR and \fInetid.byname\fR used in \fBNIS (YP).\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIprincipal\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The name
.I principal
specifies the name of the principal as defined by
the naming rules for that specific mechanism. For example, \fBLOCAL\fR
credential names are supplied with this option by including a string
specifying a
.B UID.
For
.B DES
credentials, the name should be a
Secure RPC netname of the form \fBunix.\fBid\fB@\fIdomain.com,\fR
as described earlier. If the
.B -p
option is not specified, the
\fIauth_name\fR field is constructed from the effective UID of the current
process and the name of the local domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fInis_principal\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Use the
.B NIS+
principal name
.IR nis_principal .
This option should
be used when creating
.B LOCAL
or
.B DES
credentials for users whose
home domain is different than the local machine's default domain.
.sp
Whenever the
.B -P
option is not specified,
.B nisaddcred
constructs
a principal name for the entry as follows. When it is not creating an entry
of type
.B "LOCAL, nisaddcred"
calls
.BR nis_local_principal ,
which
looks for an existing
.B LOCAL
entry for the effective
.B UID
of the
current process in the
.B cred.org_dir
table and uses the associated
principal name for the new entry. When creating an entry of authentication
type
.BR LOCAL ,
\fBnisaddcred\fR constructs a default NIS+ principal name
by taking the login name of the effective
.B UID
for its own process, and
appending to it a dot ('.') followed by the local machine's default domain.
If the caller is a superuser, the machine name is used instead of the login
name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlogin_password\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Use the
.I login_password
specified as the password to encrypt the
secret key for the credential entry. This overrides the prompting for a
password from the shell. This option is intended for administration scripts
only. Prompting guarantees not only that no one can see your password on the
command line using
.BR ps (1)
but it also checks to make sure you have not
made any mistakes.
.I login_password
does not really have to be the
user's password but if it is, it simplifies logging in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR [\fInis_principal\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Remove all credentials associated with the principal
.IR nis_principal
from the
.B cred.org_dir
table. This option can be used when removing a
client or user from the system. If
.I nis_principal
is not specified the
default is to remove credentials for the current
.IR user .
If
\fIdomain_name\fR is not specified, the operation is executed in the default
NIS+ domain.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Adding the \fBLOCAL\fR and \fBDES\fR Credentials
.sp
.LP
The following examples illustrate how to add the
.B LOCAL
and
.BR DES
credentials for some user,
.BR user1 ,
with a
.B UID
of
.BR 2990 ,
who
is an
.B NIS+
user principal in the
.B some.domain.com.
NIS+ domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p 2990 -P user1.some.domain.com. local\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that credentials are always added in the
.B cred.org_dir
table in
the domain where
.B nisaddcred
is run, unless
.I domain_name
is
specified as the last parameter on the command line. If credentials are
being added from the domain server for its clients, then \fIdomain_name\fR
should be specified. The caller should have adequate permissions to create
entries in the
.B cred.org_dir
table.

.sp
.LP
The system administrator can add a
.B DES
credential for the same user,
using the following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p unix.2990@some.domain.com -P user1.some.domain.com. des\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Please note that
.B DES
credentials can be added only after the
\fBLOCAL\fR credentials have been added. Also, if the system is configured
to use more than one authentication mechanism, credentials will be made for
each mechanism configured. See \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M).

.sp
.LP
Note that the secure RPC netname does not end with a dot ('.') while the
NIS+ principal name, specified with the
.B -P
option, does. This command
should be executed from a machine in the same domain as is the user.

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to add a machine's
.B DES
credentials in
the same domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nisaddcred -p unix.foo@some.domain.com -P foo.some.domain.com. des
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Please note that no
.B LOCAL
credentials are needed in this case.

.sp
.LP
The following example illustrates how to add a
.B NIS+
workstation's
principal
.B DES
credential:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p unix.host1@sub.some.domain.com \e
     -P newhost.sub.some.domain.com. des sub.some.domain.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This format is particularly useful if you are running this command from a
server which is in a higher domain than sub.some.domain.com. Without the
last option for domain name,
.B nisaddcred
would fail because it would
attempt to use the default domain of some.domain.com.

.sp
.LP
The following example illustrates adding
.B DES
credentials without
being prompted for the root login password:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p unix.2990@some.domain.com \e
     -P user1.some.domain.com. -l login_password des\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to add a credential for a user using a
specific authentication mechanism that was previously configured with
\fBnisauthconf\fR(1M). See \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M) for a list of the valid
values of
.IR auth_type :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p unix.2990@some.domain.com \e
     -P user.1.some.domain.com dh640-0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The password should be the same for all the credentials that belong to the
user. Otherwise, only the credentials encrypted with the user's password
will be used at login, and the user will have to run
.BR chkey (1)
using
the
.B -p
option.

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to add a
.B DES
credential when other
authentication mechanisms are configured on the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisaddcred -p unix.2990@some.domain.com \e
     -P user1.some.domain.com dh192-0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chkey (1),
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischown (1),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR domainname (1M),
.BR nisclient (1M),
.BR nispopulate (1M),
.BR nis_groups (3NSL),
.BR nis_local_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR rpc_clnt_auth (3NSL),
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
