'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisbackup 1M "12 Dec 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nisbackup \- backup NIS+ directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisbackup\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fIbackup-dir\fR \fIdirectory\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisbackup\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-a\fR \fIbackup-dir\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnisbackup\fR backs up a NIS+ directory object on a NIS+ master server.
Updates to the NIS+ database will be temporarily disabled while
\fBnisbackup\fR is running. The \fIbackup-dir\fR is a UNIX directory that
must exist prior to running
.BR nisbackup .
The
.B nisbackup
command can
be used to backup an individual NIS+ directory object or all (
.BR -a )
of
the NIS+ directory objects served by a master server. The NIS+ directory
objects being backed up will be placed into subdirectories under the
\fIbackup-dir\fR directory. These subdirectories are named according to the
NIS+ directory object they contain.
.B nisbackup
operates on individual
NIS+ directory objects (for example,
.BR org_dir.wiz.com ).
This allows an
administrator to selectively backup specific directories.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR rpc.nisd "(1M) process must be running on the master server with a"
stable NIS+ database for
.B nisbackup
to complete.
.B nisbackup
will
not attempt to correct any corruption in the NIS+ database, so it is
important that backups be done regularly as part of the NIS+
administration.
.sp
.LP
The first synopsis is used to backup a single NIS+ directory object or a
list of NIS+ directory objects. The objects can be partially qualified or
fully qualified. The machine on which the command is executing must be the
master for the NIS+ directory objects specified.
.sp
.LP
The second synopsis will backup all of the NIS+ directory objects that are
served by this master. The
.B -a
option is the recommended method of
backing up a master server, since it will backup all NIS+ directory objects
that are served by this master. If this server is a master server for more
than one domain, the backup will include NIS+ directories that belong to all
of the domains served. Individual NIS+ directory objects can be selected for
restoring from a
.I backup-dir
created with the
.B -a
option. See
.BR nisrestore (1M).
.sp
.LP
The
.B -a
option only includes directory objects for which this server is
the master. It is possible, but not recommended, to configure a master server
as a replica for other domains. The objects belonging to those replicated
domains will not be backed up with the
.B -a
option. The backup of
replicated objects must be run on the master server for those objects.
.sp
.LP
Do not use the same
.I backup-dir
to backup different master servers.
Each master server must have its own
.IR backup-dir .
.sp
.LP
\fBnisbackup\fR will set the \fBrpc.nisd\fR(1M) to read only mode, which
will disable updates to the NIS+ database. This is neccessary to ensure the
consistency of the backup. For this reason,
.B nisbackup
should not be run
while large numbers of updates are being applied to the NIS+ database. Update
utilities such as
.BR nisaddent "(1M) should not be run simultaneously with"
.BR nisbackup .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Creates a backup of all NIS+ directory objects for which this server is a
master.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Verbose option. Additional output will be produced and sent to
.BR syslog (3C)
upon execution of the command (see \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4)).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I backup-dir
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The directory into which the subdirectories containing the backed up objects
are placed. This must be created prior to running \fBnisbackup\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I directory
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The NIS+ directory object(s) being backed up.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Backup of the \fBorg_dir\fR NIS+ directory object of the
domain \fBfoo.com\fR on a master server to a directory named \fB/backup\fR
.sp
.LP
To backup the
.B org_dir
NIS+ directory object of the domain
\fBfoo.com\fR on a master server to a directory named \fB/backup\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
master_server# \fBnisbackup /backup org_dir.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Backup of the entire NIS+ domain \fBfoo.com\fR to a
directory named
.BR /backup
.sp
.LP
To backup the entire NIS+ domain \fBfoo.com\fR to a directory named
.BR /backup :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
master_server# \fBnisbackup /backup foo.com. \e
              org_dir.foo.com. groups_dir.foo.com. \e
              ctx_dir.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Backup of an entire NIS+ database to a backup directory
named
.BR /backup
.sp
.LP
To backup an entire NIS+ database to a backup directory named
.BR /backup :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
master_server# \fBnisbackup -a /backup\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/\fIbackup-dir\fB/\fIbackup_list\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This ascii file contains a list of all the objects contained in this
\fIbackup-dir\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I /backup-dir/directory-object
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A subdirectory that is created in the
.I backup-dir
that contains the
NIS+ directory-object backup.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fI/backup-dir/directory-object/\fBdata\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A subdirectory that contains the data files that are part of the NIS+
directory-object backup.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fI/backup-dir/directory-object/\fBlast.upd\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This data file contains timestamp information about the directory-object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fI/backup-dir/directory-object/\fBdata.dict\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A NIS+ data dictionary for all of the objects contained in the NIS+
directory-object backup.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
\fBnisdefaults\fR(1),
.BR nisrm (1),
.BR nisrestore (1M),
.BR rpc.nisd (1M),
.BR " syslog" (3C),
\fBnisfiles\fR(4),
\fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
