'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisshowcache 1M "13 Dec 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nisshowcache \- NIS+ utility to print out the contents of the shared cache
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nis/nisshowcache\fR [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nisshowcache
prints out the contents of the per-machine NIS+
directory cache that is shared by all processes accessing NIS+ on the
machine. By default,
.B nisshowcache
only prints out the directory names
in the cache along with the list of active servers. The shared cache is
maintained by
.BR nis_cachemgr (1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Verbose mode. Print out the contents of each directory object, including
the information on the server name and its universal addresses.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/nis/NIS_SHARED_DIRCACHE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nis_cachemgr (1M),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR nisfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Error messages are sent to the
.BR syslogd "(1M) daemon."
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris Operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
