'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nscadm 1M "2 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nscadm \- network storage control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR freeze \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR unfreeze \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR isfrozen \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nscadm
command performs several network storage control
functions.
.sp
.LP
The
.B "nscadm freeze"
command closes existing references to the
specified device, and blocks future accesses. This allows maintenance of
virtual volume device drivers (for example, RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5) to be
performed without shutting down the system.
.sp
.LP
The
.B "nscadm unfreeze"
command reverses the effects of
.B nscadm freeze
for the specified device.
.sp
.LP
The
.B "nscadm isfrozen"
command returns the current status of the
specified device.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B nscadm
command supports the following option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Display the usage menu.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The
.B nscadm
command line supports the following operand.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the storage device to be acted upon by
.BR nscadm .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
For the
.B freeze
and
.BR unfreeze ,
subcommands
.B nscadm
returns
the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Success
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 255
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Error
.RE

.sp
.LP
.RB "For the " isfrozen " subcommand, " nscadm " returns the following exit"
values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Device is currently frozen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Device is not currently frozen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 255
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Error
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscmr, SUNWscmu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR scmadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
