'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
.\" program (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);
.\" if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH ntfscmp 1M "28 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ntfscmp \- compare two NTFS file systems and report the differences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfscmp\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice1\fR \fIdevice2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ntfscmp
utility compares all aspects of two NTFS file systems and
reports all differences it finds. The file systems can be on block devices
or in image files.
.B ntfscmp
can be used for volume verification.
However, its primary purpose is to be an efficient development tool, used to
quickly locate, identify, and check the correctness of the metadata changes
made to NTFS.
.sp
.LP
If one is interested only in the NTFS metadata changes,  it can be useful
to compare the metadata images created by using the
.B --metadata
option
of \fBntfsclone\fR(1M) to eliminate the usually uninteresting timestamp
changes.
.sp
.LP
The terse output of
.B ntfscmp
is intentional, because the provided
information is sufficient to determine  exact differences. More copious
output can be obtained by using
.BR diff (1)
to compare the  verbose output
of \fBntfsinfo\fR(1M) for each reported inode.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Options have both single-letter and
full-name forms.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display help and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -P ,
.B --no-progress-bar
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not show progress bars.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display more debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The exit code is
.B 0
on success, non-zero otherwise.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWntfsprogs
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR ntfscat (1M),
.BR ntfsclone (1M),
.BR ntfsinfo (1M),
.BR ntfsprogs (1M),
.BR parted (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
.B ntfscmp
was written by Szabolcs Szakacsits.
