'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
.\" program (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);
.\" if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH ntfscluster 1M "28 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ntfscluster \- identify files in a specified region of an NTFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfscluster\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBntfscluster\fR utility has three modes of operation: \fBinfo\fR,
.BR sector ,
and
.BR cluster ,
described as follows.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBInfo\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default mode, \fBinfo\fR is currently not implemented. It will display
general information about the NTFS volume when it is working.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Sector
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B sector
mode displays a list of files that have data in the
specified range of sectors. This mode is put in effect by the \fB--sector\fR
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Cluster
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B cluster
mode displays a list of files that have data in the
specified range of clusters. When the cluster size is one sector, this is
equivalent to the
.B sector
mode of operation. This mode is put in effect
by the
.B --cluster
option.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter
and full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an
argument can be combined. For example, \fB-fv\fR is the equivalent of
\fB-f -v\fR. A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix
of its name.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -c ,
\fB--cluster\fR \fIrange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Any files whose data is in this range of clusters will be displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -F ,
\fB--filename\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information about
.IR filename .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overrides some sensible defaults, such as not working with a mounted
volume. Use this option with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -I ,
\fB--inode\fR \fInum\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show information about this inode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -i ,
\fB--info\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option is not yet implemented.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -q ,
.B --quiet
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress some debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -s ,
\fB--sector\fR \fIrange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Any files whose data is in this range of sectors will be displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -V ,
.B --version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the version number, copyright, and license information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display more debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Displaying Information About a Volume
.sp
.LP
The following command displays information about the volume
.BR /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscluster /dev/dsk/c0d0p1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Displaying List of Files in a Cluster Range
.sp
.LP
The following command looks for files in the first 500 clusters of
.BR /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscluster -c 0-500 /dev/dsk/c0d0p1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWntfsprogs
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsinfo\fR(1M), \fBntfsprogs\fR(1M), \fBparted\fR(1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
\fBntfscluster\fR was written by Richard Russon, with contributions from
Anton Altaparmakov.
