'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
.\" program (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);
.\" if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH ntfscat 1M "28 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ntfscat \- display NTFS files and streams on the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfscat\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ntfscat
command reads a file or stream from an NTFS volume and
display the contents on the standard output.
.sp
.LP
The case of the filename passed to
.B ntfscat
is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter
and full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an
argument can be combined. For example,
.B -fv
is the equivalent of
.BR "-f -v" .
A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix
of its name.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -a ,
.B --attribute
.I type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the contents of a particular attribute type. By default, the
unnamed
.B $DATA
attribute will be shown. The attribute can be specified
by a number in decimal or hexadecimal, or by name.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Hex     Decimal Name
0x10    16      "$STANDARD_INFORMATION"
0x20    32      "$ATTRIBUTE_LIST"
0x30    48      "$FILE_NAME"
0x40    64      "$OBJECT_ID"
0x50    80      "$SECURITY_DESCRIPTOR"
0x60    96      "$VOLUME_NAME"
0x70    112     "$VOLUME_INFORMATION"
0x80    128     "$DATA"
0x90    144     "$INDEX_ROOT"
0xA0    160     "$INDEX_ALLOCATION"
0xB0    176     "$BITMAP"
0xC0    192     "$REPARSE_POINT"
0xD0    208     "$EA_INFORMATION"
0xE0    224     "$EA"
0xF0    240     "$PROPERTY_SET"
0x100   256     "$LOGGED_UTILITY_STREAM"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The attribute names can be specified without the leading dollar sign
.RB ( $ ") symbol. If you use the " $ " symbol, you must quote the name to"
prevent the shell from interpreting the name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -f ,
.B --force
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overrides some sensible defaults, such as not using a mounted volume. Use
this option with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -i ,
.B --inode
.I num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file by its inode number instead of its name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -n ,
.B --attribute-name
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the attribute identified by
.IR name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -q ,
.B --quiet
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress some debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -V ,
.B --version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the version number, copyright, and license information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display more debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying Contents of File in Root
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of a file in the root of an
NTFS volume.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 boot.ini\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying Contents of File in Subdirectory
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of a file in a subdirectory of
an NTFS volume.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 /winnt/system32/drivers/etc/hosts\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Display Contents of an Attribute
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of the
.BR $INDEX_ROOT
attribute of the root directory (inode 5).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -a INDEX_ROOT -i 5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWntfsprogs
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ntfsls (1M),
.BR ntfsprogs (1M),
.BR parted (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
.B ntfscat
was written by Richard Russon, Anton Altaparmakov and
Szabolcs Szakacsits.
