'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
.\" program (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);
.\" if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH ntfsundelete 1M "22 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ntfsundelete \- recover a deleted file from an NTFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfsundelete\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBntfsundelete\fR utility can, under the right circumstances, recover
a deleted file from an NTFS volume. The command has three modes of
operation:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Scan
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default mode,
.B scan
simply reads an NTFS Volume and looks for
files that have been deleted. It then displays a list, giving the inode
number, name, and size of each deleted file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Undelete
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The undelete mode takes the files either matching the regular expression
(option
.BR -m )
or specified by the
.I inode-expressions
and recovers
as much of the data as possible. It saves the result to another location.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Copy
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The "wizard's" option. Saves a portion of the MFT to a file, which can be
useful when debugging \fBntfsundelete\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
There are many circumstances under which \fBntfsundelete\fR is unable to
recover a file. For example, consider the following scenario. When a file is
deleted the MFT Record is marked as not in use and the bitmap representing
the disk usage is updated. If the power is not turned off immediately, the
free space, where the file used to reside might get overwritten. Worse, the
MFT Record might be reused for another file. If this happens, it is
impossible to tell where the file was on disk.
.sp
.LP
Even if all the clusters of a file are not in use, there is no guarantee
that they have not been overwritten by some short-lived file.
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsundelete\fR cannot recover compressed or encrypted files. During a
scan, it will display such a file as being 0% recoverable.
.SS "Locale"
.sp
.LP
In NTFS, all filenames are stored as Unicode. A filename is converted into
the current locale for display by
.BR ntfsundelete .
The utility has
successfully displayed Chinese pictogram filenames and then correctly
recovered them.
.SS "Extended MFT Records"
.sp
.LP
In rare circumstances, a single MFT Record will not be large enough to hold
the metadata describing a file (a file would have to be in hundreds of
fragments for this to happen). In these cases, one MFT record might hold the
filename, while another will hold the information about the data.
\fBntfsundelete\fR will not try and piece together such records. It will
simply list unnamed files with data.
.SS "Recovered File's Size and Creation Date"
.sp
.LP
To recover a file, \fBntfsundelete\fR has to read the file's metadata.
Unfortunately, when a file is deleted, the metadata can be left in an
inconsistent state. For example, the file size might be recorded as zero;
the creation date of a file might be set to the time it was deleted or to a
random time. In such situations, \fBntfsundelete\fR picks the largest file
size it finds and writes that to disk. It also tries to set the file's
creation date to the last-modified date. This date might be the correct last
modified date, or something unexpected.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter
and full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an
argument can be combined. For example, \fB-fv\fR is the equivalent of
\fB-f -v\fR. A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix
of its name.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -b ,
\fB--byte\fR \fInum\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fill in the parts of unrecoverable file clusters with byte represented by
.IR num .
The default is zeros.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -C ,
.B --case
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Make filename search, when attempting a match with the \fB--match\fR
option, case-sensitive. The default filename search is case-insensitive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -c ,
\fB--copy\fR \fIrange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This "wizard" option writes a block of MFT FILE records to a file. The
default file is mft which will be created in the current directory. This
option can be combined with the
.B --output
and
.BR --destination
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -d ,
\fB--destination\fR \fIdir\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the location of the output file for the
.B --copy
and
\fB--undelete\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overrides some sensible defaults, such as not overwriting an existing file.
Use this option with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -i ,
\fB--inodes\fR \fIrange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recover the files within the specified range of inode numbers.  \fIrange\fR
can be a single inode number, several numbers separated by commas, or a
range separated by a dash
.RB ( - ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -m ,
\fB--match\fR \fIpattern\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Filter the output by looking only for filenames that match
.IR pattern .
The pattern can include the wildcards
.BR ? ,
matching exactly one
character, or
.BR * ,
matching zero or more characters. By default, the
matching is case-insensitive. To make the search case-sensitive, use the
\fB--case\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -O ,
.B --optimistic
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recover parts of the file even if they are currently marked as in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -o ,
\fB--output\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the name of the output file created by the
.B --copy
or
\fB--undelete\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -P ,
.B --parent
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the parent directory of a deleted file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -p ,
\fB--percentage\fR \fInum\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Filter the output of the
.B --scan
option by matching only files with
\fInum\fR percent of recoverable content.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -q ,
.B --quiet
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reduce the amount of output to a minimum. This option is not useful with
the
.B --scan
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -s ,
.B --scan
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Search through an NTFS volume and display a list of files that could be
recovered. This is the default action of
.BR ntfsundelete .
This list can
be filtered by filename, size, percentage recoverable, or last modification
time, using  the
.BR --match ,
.BR --size ,
.BR --percent ,
and
\fB--time\fR options, respectively.
.sp
In the output from this option, the
.B %age
(percentage) field displays
how much of a file can potentially be recovered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -S ,
\fB--size\fR \fIrange\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Filter the output of the
.B --scan
option by looking for a particular
range of file sizes.
.I range
can be specified as two numbers separated
by a hyphen
.RB ( - ).
A unit of size can be abbreviated using the suffixes
.BR k ,
.BR m ,
.BR g ,
and
.BR t ,
for kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes,
and terabytes respectively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -t ,
\fB--time\fR \fIsince\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Filter the output of the
.B --scan
option. Match only  files that have
been altered since this time. The time must be given as number and a suffix
of
.BR d ,
.BR w ,
.BR m ,
or
.B y
for, respectively, days, weeks,
months, or years.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -T ,
.B --truncate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default behavior of \fBntfsundelete\fR is to round \fBup\fR a file's
size to the nearest cluster (which will be a multiple of 512 bytes). In
cases where the utility has complete data about the size of a file, this
option restores the file to exactly that size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -u ,
.B --undelete
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies undelete mode. You can specify the files to be recovered using by
using
.B --match
or
.B --inodes
options. This option can be combined
with
.BR --output ,
.BR --destination ,
and
.BR --byte .
.sp
When the file is recovered it will be given its original name, unless the
\fB--output\fR option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Increase the amount of output that \fBntfsundelete\fR displays.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -V ,
.B --version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the version number, copyright, and license for
\fBntfsundelete\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Searching for Deleted Files
.sp
.LP
The following command searches for deleted files on a specific device.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Scanning for Files Matching a Wildcard
.sp
.LP
The following command searches for deleted files that match
.BR *.doc .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -s -m '*.doc'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Searching for Files of a Certain Size
.sp
.LP
The following command looks for deleted files between 5000 and 6000000
bytes, with at least 90% of the data recoverable, on
.BR /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -S 5k-6m -p 90\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Searching for Recently Changed Files
.sp
.LP
The following command searches for deleted files altered in the last two
days.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -t 2d\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Specifying an Inode Range
.sp
.LP
The following command undeletes inodes 2, 5 and 100 to 131 of device
.BR /dev/sda1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/sda1 -u -i 2,5,100-131\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Specifying an Output File and Directory
.sp
.LP
The following command undeletes inode number 3689, names the file
.BR work.doc ,
and stores it in the user's home directory.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -u -i 3689 -o work.doc -d ~\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Saving MFT Records
.sp
.LP
The following command saves MFT records 3689 to 3690 to a file
.BR debug .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfsundelete /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -c 3689-3690 -o debug\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWntfsprogs
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsclone\fR(1M), \fBntfsresize\fR(1M), \fBparted\fR(1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsundelete\fR was written by Richard Russon and Holger Ohmacht, with
contributions from Anton Altaparmakov.
