'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nwamd 1M "24 Nov 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nwamd \- network auto-magic daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/lib/inet/nwamd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nwamd
is a system daemon to manage network interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This daemon is started automatically and should not be invoked directly. It
does not constitute a programming interface.
.SS "Operation"
.sp
.LP
Whether this daemon is enabled or not depends on your installation medium.
To check from within the GNOME desktop environment, double click on the
"Network Manager" icon to open the "Connection Properties" window. If
"Configure network automatically" is checked, then auto-magic mode is
enabled. To check from the command line, enter the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsvcs svc:/network/physical\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Two instances will be listed, one online and the other disabled. If the
"nwam" instance is online, then this daemon is running.
.sp
.LP
To switch between manual and auto-magic mode, you can use the Network
Monitor applet available within the GNOME desktop environment. You can also
switch manually from the command line by entering:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsvcadm disable svc:/network/physical:default\fR
% \fBsvcadm enable svc:/network/physical:nwam\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To go from auto-magic mode to manual mode:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsvcadm disable svc:/network/physical:nwam\fR
% \fBsvcadm enable svc:/network/physical:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When switching modes like this, keep in mind that all network interfaces
will be brought down then back up. Therefore, if a different \fBIP\fR
address is configured in this process, existing applications and sessions
might be disrupted.
.sp
.LP
There is a limitation that only one link is active at a time in auto-magic
mode. This mode is not recommended for machines that use more than one link
at a time. For machines with wired and wireless links, wired link are
preferred by default, although this can be adjusted from the GNOME NWAM
Manager menu (right-click on the icon), or from the command line, by editing
the plain text file
.BR /etc/nwam/llp .
For the latter (hand-editing)
procedure, the first instance of a link in
.B /etc/nwam/llp
sets the
priority of that link. Subsequent instances of that link set parameters
associated with the interface on that link.
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/nwam/llp
interface is volatile and might  change in a future
release.
.SS "Static IP Addresses"
.sp
.LP
A static IP address can be configured by changing the line in the
.B /etc/nwam/llp
file that contains an interface name and the name of the
method for obtaining an IP address. It might look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nge0    dhcp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Change this line to one that looks like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nge0    static  \fII\fR1.\fII\fR2.\fII\fR3.\fII\fR4/\fIP\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.where the I's are the digits of the IPv4 address and the \fIP\fR is an
optional prefix. If the prefix is not provided, it is derived, using
classful assumptions.
.SS "Configuring IPv6"
.sp
.LP
IPv6 is configured by default on a link. It can also be explicitly added in
the
.B /etc/nwam/llp
file by providing a line that contains an interface
name and the string
.BR ipv6 .
It might look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nge0    ipv6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If IPv6 should not be plumbed on a given link, a
.B noipv6
entry should
be created in the
.B /etc/nwam/llp
file for that link. It might look
like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nge0 noipv6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
An optional static IPv6 address can be provided on the same line,
immediately after the
.B ipv6
token. Whether you provide a static address
or not, IPv6 will use DHCPv6 or stateless address configuration, as directed
by the local network configuration.
.SS "PROFILES"
.sp
.LP
All interfaces listed in this section are volatile and may change in a
future release. They are documented here so that those wishing to experiment
with this may do so.
.sp
.LP
Profiles are a mechanism for making multiple related changes to the system
configuration after
.B IP
service is available.
.sp
.LP
There is no direct support for the profiles yet, but a "roll your own"
mechanism is provided for now. Once an interface is brought up and an
.B IP
address is configured for it, the daemon looks for the file
.BR /etc/nwam/ulp/check-conditions .
If this file exists and is executable,
it is run. This should print a single line of output, which is the name of
the profile that the user wishes to activate based on the current
conditions. If such a line is read successfully (\fIfoo\fR in this example),
then
.B /etc/nwam/ulp/foo/bringup
is executed. Likewise, when the
interface gets torn down for whatever reason,
\fB/etc/nwam/ulp/foo/teardown\fR is executed. The "bringup" and "teardown"
scripts are invoked via
.BR pfexec (1)
with default basic privileges.
Samples for each of these scripts can be found at:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
http://opensolaris.org/os/project/nwam/prototype/check-conditions
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
http://opensolaris.org/os/project/nwam/prototype/bringup
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
http://opensolaris.org/os/project/nwam/prototype/teardown
.RE
.SS "Wireless"
.sp
.LP
If no wired link is available, a scan for wireless \fBLAN\fRs is done, and
the resulting list offered via a
.B GUI
popup window prompts the console
user to select a preference. If a successful connection is made, the
.B WLAN
in question is stored in the plain text file
.B /etc/nwam/known_wifi_nets
and the daemon may connect to any
.BR WLAN
in that list without prompting the user again. If a user wishes to add other
preferences or revoke existing ones, he can do so by bringing up the NWAM
Manager menu with right-click on the icon, and then selecting "Manage
Favorite Wireless Networks.\|.\|.". A user can also edit the
.B known_wifi_nets
file directly. This interface is volatile and might
change in a future release.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.sp
.LP
See also
.BR nwam-manager(1M) ,
available in the JDS/GNOME man page
collection.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The networking service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/physical
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
