'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH patchadd 1M "11 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
patchadd \- apply a patch package to a system running the Solaris operating
system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpatchadd\fR [\fB-dun\fR] [\fB-G\fR] [\fB-B\fR \fIbackout_dir\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkeystore\fR]
     [\fB-P\fR \fIpasswd\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fIproxy\fR] {\fIpatch\fR} |
     {\fB-M\fR \fIpatch_location\fR [\fIpatch_list\fR]} [\fB-C\fR \fInet_install_image\fR |
     \fB-R\fR \fIclient_root_path\fR | \fB-S\fR \fIservice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpatchadd\fR \fB-p\fR
     [\fB-C\fR \fInet_install_image\fR | \fB-R\fR \fIclient_root_path\fR | \fB-S\fR \fIservice\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpatchadd\fR applies a patch package to a system running the Solaris
2.\fIx\fR operating environment or later Solaris environments (such as
Solaris 10) that are compatible with Solaris 2.\fIx.\fR This patch
installation utility cannot be used to apply Solaris 1 patches.
\fBpatchadd\fR must be run as root.
.sp
.LP
The
.B patchadd
command has the following forms:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The first form of
.B patchadd
installs one or more patches to a system,
client, service, or to the miniroot of a Net Install Image.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The second form of
.B patchadd
displays installed patches on the client,
service, or to the miniroot of a Net Install Image.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Starting with version 10 of the Solaris operating system, \fBpatchadd\fR
performs validity and dependency checking among a collection of patches that
you specify with the
.B -M
source specifier. See the description of
\fB-M\fR under OPERANDS, below.
.sp
.LP
With respect to
.BR zones (5),
when invoked in the global zone, by
default,
.B patchadd
patches all appropriate packages in all zones.
Patching behavior on system with
.B zones
installed varies according to
the following factors:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
use of the
.B -G
option (described below)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
setting of the
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
variable in the \fBpkginfo\fR file
(see \fBpkginfo\fR(4))
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
type of zone, global or local (non-global) in
.B patchadd
which is
invoked
.RE
.sp
.LP
The interaction of the factors above is specified in "Interaction of
\fB-G\fR and \fBpkginfo\fR Variable in Zones," below.
.sp
.LP
When you add patches to packages on a Solaris system with zones installed,
you will see numerous zones-related messages, the frequency and content of
which depend on whether you invoke
.B patchadd
in a global or local zone,
the setting of
.BR SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES ,
and the use of the
.BR -G
option.
.sp
.LP
The
.IR patch ,
.BR -M ,
.BR -C ,
.BR -R ,
and
.B -S
arguments shown
in the SYNOPSIS are described under OPERANDS, following OPTIONS.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-B\fR \fIbackout_dir\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Saves backout data to a directory other than the package database. Specify
\fIbackout_dir\fR as an absolute path name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not back up the files to be patched. \fBThe patch cannot be
removed.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -G
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add patch(es) to packages in the current zone only. When used in the global
zone, the patch is added to packages in the global zone only and is not
propagated to packages in any existing or yet-to-be-created non-global zone.
When used in a non-global zone, the patch is added to packages in the
non-global zone only. See "Interaction of \fB-G\fR and \fBpkginfo\fR
Variable in Zones,", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR \fIkeystore\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I keystore
as the location to get trusted certificate authority
certificates when verifying digital signatures found in each patch. If no
keystore is specified, then the default keystore locations are searched for
valid trusted certificates. See
.B "KEY STORE LOCATIONS"
in
.BR pkgadd (1M)
for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Tells
.B patchadd
to ignore the signature and not to validate it. This
should be used only when the content of the patch is known and trusted, and
is primarily included to allow
.B patchadd
to apply a patch on systems
without the ability to verify the patch signature, such as Solaris 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In the second form, displays a list of the patches currently applied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIpasswd\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password to use to decrypt the keystore specified with
.BR -k ,
if
required. See
.B "PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS"
in \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) for more
information about the format of this option's argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maintains the
.B patchadd
return codes from the Solaris release prior to
Solaris 10. On a system with
.BR zones (5)
installed, a return code of 0
indicates success. Any other return code indicates failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off validation against other required or incompatible patches. Use
extreme caution when using this option. Its use can precipitate
unanticipated bad consequences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fIproxy\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a HTTP[S] proxy to use when downloading packages The format of
proxy is \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR, where \fIhost\fR is the hostname of the
HTTP[S] proxy, and
.I port
is the port number associated with the proxy.
This switch overrides all other methods of specifying a proxy. See
ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES in \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) for more information on alternate
methods of specifying a default proxy.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.SS "Sources"
.sp
.LP
\fBpatchadd\fR must be supplied a source for retrieving the patch. Specify
sources using the syntax shown below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I patch
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The absolute path name to
.I patch_id
or a URI pointing to a signed
patch.
.B /var/sadm/spool/patch/104945-02
is an example of a
.IR patch .
\fBhttps://syrinx.eng:8887/patches/104945-02\fR is an example of a URI
pointing to a signed patch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-M\fR \fIpatch_location\fR [\fIpatch_list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the patches to be installed by directory location or URL and,
optionally, the name of a file containing a patch list.
.sp
When using a directory as the
.IR patch_location ,
specify that directory
as an absolute path name. Specify a URL as the server and path name that
contains the spooled patches. The optional
.I patch_list
is the name of
the file at a specified location containing the patches to be installed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-M\fR \fIpatch_location patch_id\fR [\fIpatch_id\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the patches to be installed by directory location or URL, and
patch number.
.sp
To use the directory location or URL and the patch number, specify
\fIpatch_location\fR as the absolute path name of the directory that
contains spooled patches. Specify a URL as the server and path name that
contains the spooled patches. Specify
.I patch_id
as the patch number of
a given patch.
.B 104945-02
is an example of a
.IR patch_id .
\fB104945-02\fR is also an example of a patchid in \fB104945-02.jar\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Note that
.B patchadd
does not require a list of patches. Among a
collection of patches\(emresiding in a directory, specified in a list, or
entered on a command line\(em\fBpatchadd\fR performs validity and dependency
checking. Specifically, the command does the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Determines whether a patch is applicable for a system. For example, if the
package to be patched is not installed,
.B patchadd
does not attempt to
add the patch.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Establishes dependencies among valid patches and orders the installation of
patches accordingly.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Most users will find the easiest way to specify a source for
.BR patchadd
is to specify only a
.I patch_location
containing a set of patches.
.SS "Destinations"
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B patchadd
applies a patch to the specified destination. If
no destination is specified, then the current system (the one with its root
filesystem mounted at
.BR / )
is assumed to be the destination for the
patch. You can specify a destination in the following ways:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-C\fR \fInet_install_image\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Patches the files located on the miniroot on a Net Install Image created by
.BR setup_install_server .
Specify
.I net_install_image
as the absolute
path name to a Solaris 8 or compatible version boot directory. See
.BR EXAMPLES .
.sp
You should use the
.B -C
option only to install patches that are
recommended for installation to the miniroot. Patches that are recommended
for installation to the miniroot usually include install-related patches
such as package commands, and Sun install and patch installation tools. If
you apply too many patches to the miniroot it can grow too large to fit into
memory during a net installation of Solaris. Use the
.B -B
option and the
\fB-C\fR option together so the miniroot does not get too large. See
.BR -B ,
above.
.sp
Note that in the current release and in certain versions of Solaris 10, the
miniroot is compressed. To determine whether the miniroot is compressed on
your system, look for a file called
.B sparc.miniroot
or
\fBx86.miniroot\fR under
.BR /boot ,
on the boot medium. Before you can
patch a compressed miniroot, you must perform certains steps. See "Patching
a Compressed Miniroot" below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-R\fR \fIclient_root_path\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Locates all patch files generated by
.B patchadd
under the directory
.IR client_root_path .
\fIclient_root_path\fR is the directory that
contains the bootable root of a client from the server's perspective.
Specify
.I client_root_path
as the absolute path name to the beginning of
the directory tree under which all patch files generated by
.BR patchadd
are to be located.
.B -R
cannot be specified with the
.B -S
option.
See
.BR NOTES .
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with
the
.B -R
option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system,
might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the
non-global zone's file system. See \fBzones\fR(5).
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-S\fR \fIservice\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate service (for example,
.BR Solaris_8 ).
This service
is part of the server and client model, and can only be used from the
server's console. Servers can contain shared
.B /usr
file systems that
are created by
.BR smosservice "(1M). These service areas can then be made"
available to the clients they serve.
.B -S
cannot be specified with the
\fB-R\fR option. See \fBNOTES\fR.
.RE

.SS "Patching a Compressed Miniroot"
.sp
.LP
The Solaris operating system uses a compressed miniroot. The compressed
miniroot was adopted first in Solaris for x86 and then in Solaris for SPARC
over the course of Solaris 10 update releases. See below for an easy way to
determine whether your Solaris system uses a compressed miniroot.
.sp
.LP
To patch a system with a compressed miniroot (full or partial), you must
unpack and then repack the miniroot before and after running
.BR patchadd
with the
.B -C
destination specifier. Use the procedure shown below and
accompanying example commands.
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Unpack the compressed miniroot:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive unpackmedia \e
/export/home/altuser/testdir /export/home/altuser/mr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Run
.B patchadd
with
.B -C
to patch the miniroot:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBpatchadd -C /export/home/altuser/mr \e
/var/sadm/spool/104945-02\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Repack the miniroot:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive packmedia \e
/export/home/altuser/testdir /export/home/altuser/mr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.sp
.LP
At this point, you can use
.BR setup_install_server (1M)
to install the
patched miniroot on an install server. See \fBroot_archive\fR(1M) for a
description of that command.
.sp
.LP
To determine whether a Solaris image uses a compressed miniroot, check for
the presence of either an
.B x86.miniroot
or
.B sparc.miniroot
file
under
.B /boot
on the boot medium.
.SS "Interaction of \fB-G\fR and \fBpkginfo\fR Variable in Zones"
.sp
.LP
The following list specifies the interaction between the
.B -G
option
and the
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
variable (see
.BR pkginfo (4))
when adding
a patch in global and local (non-global) zones.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBglobal zone, \fB-G\fR specified\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B any
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Error;
nothing changes.
.sp
If
.B no
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Apply patch
to package(s) in global zone only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBglobal zone, \fB-G\fR not specified\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B any
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Apply patch
to appropriate package(s) in all zones.
.sp
If
.B no
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Apply patch
to appropriate package(s) in all zones.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlocal zone, \fB-G\fR specified or not specified\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B any
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Error;
nothing changes.
.sp
If
.B no
packages have
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
set to true: Apply patch
package(s) in local zone only.
.RE

.SH KEYSTORE LOCATIONS
.sp
.LP
See the section KEYSTORE LOCATIONS in the \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) man page for
details.
.SH KEYSTORE AND CERTIFICATE FORMATS
.sp
.LP
See the section KEYSTORE AND CERTIFICATE FORMATS in the
.BR pkgadd (1M)
man page for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The examples in this section are all relative to the
.BR /usr/sbin
directory.
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Installing a Patch to a Standalone Machine
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a standalone machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd /var/sadm/spool/104945-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Installing a Patch to a Client From the Server's Console
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a client from the server's
console:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -R /export/root/client1  /var/sadm/spool/104945-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Installing a Patch to a Service From the Server's Console
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a service from the server's
console:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -S Solaris_8 /var/sadm/spool/104945-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Installing Multiple Patches in a Single Invocation
.sp
.LP
The following example installs multiple patches in a single
.BR patchadd
invocation:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -M /var/sadm/spool 104945-02 104946-02 102345-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Installing Multiple Patches Specifying List of Patches to
Install
.sp
.LP
The following example installs multiple patches specifying a file with the
list of patches to install:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -M /var/sadm/spool patchlist
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Installing Multiple Patches to a Client and Saving the
Backout Data
.sp
.LP
The following example installs multiple patches to a client and saves the
backout data to a directory other than the default:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -M /var/sadm/spool -R /export/root/client1 \e
     -B /export/backoutrepository 104945-02 104946-02 102345-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Installing a Patch to a Solaris 8 or Compatible Version Net
Install Image
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a Solaris 8 or compatible version
Net Install Image:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBpatchadd -C /export/Solaris_8/Tools/Boot \e
    /var/sadm/spool/104945-02\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8\fR Installing a Patch to a Compressed Miniroot
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a compressed miniroot, such as
one finds on a Solaris x86 machine that supports GRUB-style booting. This
example assumes that
.B /export/Solaris_11/Tools/Boot
contains the
unpacked miniroot. After applying the patch, the miniroot needs to be
repacked

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBpatchadd -C /export/Solaris_11/Tools/Boot \e
/var/sadm/spool/104945-02\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See "Patching a Compressed Miniroot," above, for information on Solaris
versions that use a compressed miniroot.

.LP
\fBExample 9\fR Installing a Patch to an Uncompressed Miniroot
.sp
.LP
The following example installs a patch to a miniroot on a Solaris machine
that does not have a compressed miniroot.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBpatchadd -C /export/Solaris_9/Tools/Boot \e
/var/sadm/spool/104945-02\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See "Patching a Compressed Miniroot," above, for information on Solaris
versions that use a compressed miniroot.

.LP
\fBExample 10\fR Displaying the Patches Installed on a Client
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the patches installed on a client:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -R /export/root/client1 -p
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note the caveat on the use of the
.B -R
option in the description of
that option, above.

.LP
\fBExample 11\fR Installing a Digitally Signed Set of Patches
.sp
.LP
The following example installs multiple patches, some of which have been
signed, using the supplied keystore, password, and HTTP proxy.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# patchadd -k /etc/mycerts -P pass:abcd -x webcache.eng:8080 \e
-M http://www.sun.com/solaris/patches/latest 101223-02 102323-02
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWswmt, SUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cpio (1),
\fBpkginfo\fR(1), \fBpatchrm\fR(1M), \fBpkgadd\fR(1M),
.BR pkgadm (1M),
.BR pkgchk (1M),
.BR pkgrm (1M),
.BR setup_install_server (1M),
.BR smpatch (1M),
.BR showrev (1M),
\fBpkginfo\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
.BR grub (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The following messages might help in determining some of the most common
problems associated with installing a patch.
.SS "Patch Installation errors"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
The prepatch script exited with return code \fIretcode\fR.
patchadd is terminating.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The prepatch script supplied with the patch exited with a return code other
than
.BR 0 .
Run a script trace of the prepatch script and find out why the
prepatch had a bad return code. Add the
.B -x
option to the first line of
the prepatch script to fix the problem and run
.B patchadd
again.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
The signature on patch patch_id was unable to be verified.
patchadd is terminating.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The digital signature on a patch was unable to be verified given the
keystore in use and the signature on the patch. Check the keystore to make
sure it has the requisite trust anchor(s) required to validate the signature
on the package and that the package has not been tampered with.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
The postpatch script exited with return code \fIretcode\fR.
Backing out patch.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The postpatch script provided with the patch exited with an error code
other than
.BR 0 .
This script is mostly used to cleanup files (that is,
when a package is known to have ownership or permission problems) attributes
that do not correspond to the patch package's objects. After the user has
noted all validation errors and taken the appropriate action for each one,
the user should re-run
.B patchadd
using the
.B -u
(unconditional)
option. This time, the patch installation will ignore validation errors and
install the patch anyway.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Insufficient space in /var/sadm/patch to save old files.
(For 2.4 systems and previous)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is insufficient space in the
.B /var/sadm/patch
directory to save
old files. The user has three options for handling this problem: Use the
\fB-B\fR option while invoking
.BR patchadd .
This option will direct
\fBpatchadd\fR to: save the backout data to the user specified file system,
generate additional disk space by deleting unneeded files, or override the
saving of the old files by using the
.B -d
(do not save) option when
running
.BR patchadd .
.sp
If the user elects not to save the old versions of the files to be patched,
\fBpatchrm cannot\fR be used. One way to regain space on a system is
to remove the save area for previously applied patches. Once the user has
decided that it is unlikely that a patch will be backed out, the user can
remove the files that were saved by
.BR patchadd .
The following commands
should be executed to remove the saved files for \fBpatch\fIpatch_id\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcd /var/sadm/patch/\fIpatch_id\fR
rm -r save/*
rm .oldfilessaved\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

After these commands have been executed,
.B patch
\fIpatch_id\fR can no
longer be backed out.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Insufficient space in /var/sadm/pkg/\fIPKG\fR/save to save old files.
(For 2.5 systems and later)

.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is insufficient space in the
.B /var/sadm/pkg/PKG/save
directory
to save old files. The user has three options for handling this problem: (1)
Use the
.B -B
option while invoking
.BR patchadd .
This option will
direct
.B patchadd
to save the backout data to the user specified file
system. (See synopsis above.) (2) Generate additional disk space by deleting
unneeded files, or (3) override the saving of the old files by using the
\fB-d\fR (do not save) option when running
.BR patchadd .
However, if the
user elects not to save the old versions of the files to be patched,
\fBpatchrm cannot\fR be used. One way to regain space on a system is
to remove the save area for previously applied patches. Once the user has
decided that it is unlikely that a patch will be backed out, the user can
remove the files that were saved by
.BR patchadd .
The following commands
should be executed to remove the saved files for patch
.IR patch_id :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcd /var/sadm/pkg/\fIpkgabbrev\fR/save
rm -r \fIpatch_id\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

After these commands have been executed,
.B patch
\fIpatch_id\fR can no
longer be backed out.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Save of old files failed.
(For 2.4 systems and previous)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Before applying the patch, the patch installation script uses
.B cpio
to
save the old versions of the files to be patched. This error message means
that the
.B cpio
failed. The output of the
.B cpio
would have been
preceded this message. The user should take the appropriate action to
correct the
.B cpio
failure. A common reason for failure will be
insufficient disk space to save the old versions of the files. The user has
two options for handling insufficient disk space: (1) generate additional
disk space by deleting unneeded files, or (2) override the saving of the old
files by using the
.B -d
option when running
.BR patchadd .
However if
the user elects not to save the old versions of the files to be patched, the
patch
.B cannot
be backed out.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Pkgadd of \fIpkgname\fR package failed with error code \fIcode\fR.
See /tmp/log.\fIpatch_id\fR for reason for failure.

.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The installation of one of the patch packages failed.
.B patchadd
will
backout the patch to leave the system in its pre-patched state. See the log
file for the reason for failure. Correct the problem and reapply the patch.

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Pkgadd of \fIpkgname\fR package failed with error code \fIcode\fR.
Will not backout patch.\|.\|.patch re-installation.
Warning: The system may be in an unstable state!
See /tmp/log.\fIpatch_id\fR for reason for failure.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The installation of one of the patch packages failed.
.B patchadd
will
\fBnot\fR backout the patch. You may manually backout the patch using
.BR patchrm ,
then re-apply the entire patch. Look in the log file for the
reason
.B pkgadd
failed. Correct the problem and re-apply the patch.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
patchadd is unable to find the INST_RELEASE file. This file
must be present for patchadd to function correctly.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B INST_RELEASE
file is missing from the system. This file is
created during either initial installation or during an update.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
A previous installation of patch \fIpatch_id\fR was invoked
that saved files that were to be patched. Since files
were saved, you must run this instance of patchadd
without the -d option.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a patch was previously installed without using the
.B -d
option, then
.RB "the re-installation attempt must also be invoked without the" " -d"
option. Execute
.B patchadd
without the
.B -d
option.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
A previous installation of patch \fIpatch_id\fR was invoked
with the -d option. (i.e. Do not save files that would
be patched) Therefore, this invocation of patchadd
must also be run with the -d option.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a patch was previously installed using the
.B -d
option, then the
re-installation attempt must also be invoked with the\fB-d\fR option.
Execute
.B patchadd
with the
.BR -d '
option.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Diagnostic Reference"
.sp
.LP
The patch installation messages listed below are not necessarily considered
errors, as indicated in the explanations given. These messages are, however,
recorded in the patch installation log for diagnostic reference.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNxxxx
Original package not installed
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One of the components of the patch would have patched a package that is not
installed on your system. This is not necessarily an error. A patch may fix
a related bug for several packages.
.sp
For example, suppose a patch fixes a bug in both the online-backup and
\fBfddi\fR packages. If you had online-backup installed but didn't have
\fBfddi\fR installed, you would get the message :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWbf
Original package not installed
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This message only indicates an error if you thought the package was
installed on your system. If this is the case, take the necessary action to
install the package, backout the patch (if it installed other packages) and
re-install the patch.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNxxx
ARCH=xxxxxxx
VERSION=xxxxxxx
Architecture mismatch
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One of the components of the patch would have patched a package for an
architecture different from your system. This is not necessarily an error.
Any patch to one of the architecture-specific packages might contain one
element for each of the possible architectures. For example, assume you are
running on a
.BR sun4u .
If you were to install a patch to package
.BR SUNWcar ,
you would see the following (or similar) messages:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWcar
ARCH=sparc.sun4c
VERSION=11.5.0,REV=2.0.18
Architecture mismatch

Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWcar
ARCH=sparc.sun4u
VERSION=11.5.0,REV=2.0.18
Architecture mismatch

Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWcar
ARCH=sparc.sun4e
VERSION=11.5.0,REV=2.0.18

Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWcar
ARCH=sparc.sun4
VERSION=11.5.0,REV=2.0.18
Architecture mismatch
.fi
.in -2
.sp

These messages indicate an error condition only if
.B patchadd
does not
correctly recognize your architecture.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNxxxx
ARCH=xxxx
VERSION=xxxxxxx
Version mismatch
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The version of software to which the patch is applied is not installed on
your system. For example, if you were running Solaris 8, and you tried to
install a patch against Solaris 9, you would see the following (or similar)
message: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Package not patched:
PKG=SUNWcsu
ARCH=sparc
VERSION=10.0.2
Version mismatch
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This message does not necessarily indicate an error. If the version
mismatch was for a package you needed patched, either get the correct patch
version or install the correct package version. Then backout the patch (if
necessary) and reapply.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Re-installing Patch.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The patch has already been applied, but there is at least one package in
the patch that could be added. For example, if you applied a patch that had
both Openwindows and Answerbook components, but your system did not have
Answerbook installed, the Answerbook parts of the patch would not have been
applied. If, at a later time, you
.B pkgadd
Answerbook, you could
re-apply the patch, and the Answerbook components of the patch would be
applied to the system.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
patchadd Interrupted.
patchadd is terminating.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBpatchadd\fR was interrupted during execution (usually through pressing
CTRL-c).
.B patchadd
will clean up its working files and exit.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Message
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.in +2
.nf
patchadd Interrupted.
Backing out Patch.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Explanation and Recommended Action
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBpatchadd\fR was interrupted during execution (usually through pressing
CTRL-c).
.B patchadd
will clean up its working files, backout the patch,
and exit.
.RE

.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
To successfully install a patch to a client or server,
.B patchadd
must
be issued twice, once with the
.B -R
option and once with the
.BR -S
.RB "option. This guarantees that the patch is installed to both the" " /usr"
and
.B root
partitions. This is necessary if there are both \fB/usr\fR
and
.B root
packages in the patch.
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgadd\fR is invoked by \fBpatchadd\fR and executes the installation
scripts in the \fIpkg\fR/install\fR directory. The \fBcheckinstall\fR
script is executed with its ownership set to user
.BR install ,
if there is
no user
.B install
then
.B pkgadd
executes the
.BR checkinstall
script as noaccess. The SVR4
.B ABI
states that the
.BR checkinstall
shall only be used as an information gathering script. If the permissions
for the
.B checkinstall
script are changed to something other than the
initial settings,
.B pkgadd
may not be able to open the file for reading,
thus causing the patch installation to abort with the following error:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pkgadd: ERROR: checkinstall script did not complete successfully.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permission for the
.B checkinstall
script should not be changed.
Contents of log file for a successfull installation: \fBpatchadd\fR
redirects \fBpkgadd\fR's output to the patch installation log file. For a
successfull installation,
.B pkgadd
will produce the following message
that gets inserted into the log file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
This appears to be an attempt to install the same architecture
and version of a package which is already installed. This
installation will attempt to overwrite this package.
This message does not indicate a failure, it represents the
correct behavior by pkgadd when a patch installs correctly.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This message does not indicate a failure, it represents the correct
behavior by
.B pkgadd
when a patch installs correctly.
.sp
.LP
On client server machines the patch package is
.B not
applied to
existing clients or to the client root template space. Therefore, when
appropriate, \fBall client machines will need the patch applied directly
using this same patchadd method on the client.\fR See instructions above for
applying patches to a client. A bug affecting a package utility (for
example,
.BR pkgadd ,
.BR pkgrm ,
.BR pkgchk )
could affect the
reliability of
.B patchadd
or
.BR patchrm ,
which use package utilities
to install and backout the patch package. It is recommended that any patch
that fixes package utility problems be reviewed and, if necessary, applied
before other patches are applied. Existing patches are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSolaris 2.5.1 Sparc Platform Edition:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
104578
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSolaris 2.5.1 Intel Platform Edition:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
104579
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSolaris 2.6 Sparc Platform Edition:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
106292
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSolaris 2.6 Intel Platform Edition:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
106293
.RE

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Certain patches are classified as "deferred activation" patches (sometimes
with initial capitals, as "Deferred Activation" patches). Under conditions
indicated below, such patches require special treatment.  A patch's
\fBREADME\fR file specifies whether that patch is of the deferred activation
variety. (Search on "Deferred  Activation" in the \fBREADME\fR file.)
.sp
.LP
If you are installing or removing a patch that uses deferred activation
patching, you must check on the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
On a system running zones, all non-global zones must be in a halted state
for adding or removing a patch.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Deferred activation patching requires the loopback file system (\fBlofs\fR)
in order to complete safely. Systems running Sun Cluster 3.1 or Sun Cluster
3.2 are likely to have \fBlofs\fR turned off because of restrictions on
HA-NFS functionality when \fBlofs\fR is enabled. Therefore, before a
deferred activation patch is installed or removed, you must re-enable the
loopback file system by commenting out the following line in the
\fB/etc/system\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
exclude:lofs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Then, reboot your system and install or remove the patch. After you have
completed the patch operation, uncomment the line cited above, then reboot
to resume normal operation.
.RE
