.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.TH pcitool 1M
.SH "NAME"
pcitool \- interrupt routing tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
/usr/sbin/pcitool
.I "pci@<unit-address>\fR -i \fI<ino#> | all"
[ -r [ -c
] | -w
.I <cpu#>
[ -g ] ] [ -v ] [ -q ]

/usr/sbin/pcitool
.I "pci@<unit-address>\fR -m \fI<msi#> | all"
[ -r [ -c
] | -w
.I <cpu#>
[ -g ] ] [ -v ] [ -q ]

/usr/sbin/pcitool [ -h ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
PCItool is a low-level tool which provides a facility for getting and
setting interrupt routing information.


.SS \fIInterrupt Routing\fR

The
.I "pcitool -i"
command displays device and CPU routing information
for INOs on a given nexus, and allows rerouting of a given INO or INO group
to a
specific CPU. Use the
.I "pcitool -m"
command to retrieve and reroute
MSI/Xs.

On SPARC platforms, the INO is mapped to an interrupt mondo, where as one
or more MSI/Xs are mapped to an INO. So, INO and MSI/Xs are individually
retargetable. Use "-i" option to retrieve or reroute a given INO, where
as use "-m" option for MSI/Xs.


On x86 platforms, both INOs and MSI/Xs are mapped to the same interrupt
vectors. Use "-i" option to retrieve and reroute any interrupt vectors
(both INO and
MSI/Xs).  So, "-m" option is not required on x86 platforms. Hence it is
not supported.


.I Required privileges

The user must have all privileges in order to access interrupt
information.  A regular user can access interrupt information when
\fBsu\fR(1M) to root or granted the "Maintenance and Repair" rights
profile in the
.B user_attr
file. See
.BR user_attr (4)
and
.BR rbac (5).


.I Commandline options

-r [ -c ]

Display device and CPU routing information for INOs on a given nexus.
The device path and instance number of each device for each displayed INO
will be shown.  On some platforms, interrupts dedicated to the root complex
are indicated with "(Internal)" appended to their pathname.


Dump interrupt controller information with -c.

If neither -r nor -w are provided on the commandline, -r is assumed.

The command for showing all INOs on /pci@1e,600000 is:

  # pcitool /pci@1e,600000 -i all

The command for showing ino 0x19 on  the  same  root  nexus, along with
sample output, is:


  # pcitool /pci@1e,600000 -i 19

  ino 19 mapped to cpu 0
  Device: /pci@1e,600000/pci@0/pci@9/pci@0/scsi@1
    Driver: mpt, instance 0

  ino 19 mapped to cpu 0
  Device: /pci@1e,600000/pci@0/pci@2/pci@0/network@4
    Driver: bge, instance 0

The command for showing MSI 0x1  on  the  same  root nexus,
along with sample output, is:

# pcitool /pci@1e,600000 -m 1

  msi 1 mapped to cpu 0
  Device: /pci@1e,600000/pci@0/pci@9/pci@0/scsi@1
    Driver: mpt, instance 0

-w
.I <cpu#>
[ -g ]

Route the given INO or MSI/X to the given CPU. Display the  new and
original routing information. The INO or MSI/X must be specified.


Successful rerouting ino 19 above from cpu 0 to cpu 1 gives the following
output:

  # pcitool /pci@1e,600000 -i 19 -w 1

  Interrupts on ino 19 reassigned: Old cpu: 0, New cpu: 1

Successful rerouting msi 1 above from cpu 1 to cpu 0 gives the following
output:

  # pcitool /pci@1e,600000 -m 1 -w 0

  Interrupts on msi 1 reassigned: Old cpu: 1, New cpu: 0

On some platforms (such as X86) multiple MSI interrupts of a single
function need to be rerouted together.  Use -g to do this.  -g works only
on supported
platforms  and only for groups of MSI interrupts.  (A "group" of 1 is
accepted.) When -g is used, the vector provided must be the lowest-numbered
vector of the
group.  The size of the group is determined internally.

Successful rerouting a group of INOs starting at 60 from cpu 0 to cpu 1
gives the following output:


  # pcitool /pci@0,0 -i 60 -w 1 -g

  Interrupts on ino group starting at ino 60 reassigned: Old cpu: 0, New cpu: 1

-v

Verbose output.

-q

No errors reported as messages.  Unix error status still returned by
program, however.

.SH EXIT STATUS

The following error statuses are returned to the shell:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.B 0
.in +24n
.rt
No error
.sp
.sp 1
.in -24n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.B EINVAL
.in +24n
.rt
Out-of-range, misaligned or otherwise invalid argument has been passed
in\&.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -24n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.B ETIME
.in +24n
.rt
Timeout waiting for pending interrupt to settle before changing interrupts
to a new CPU\&.

.sp
.sp 1
.in -24n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.B EIO
.in +24n
.rt
An IO error occurred\&.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -24n

.SH FILES
  /usr/sbin/pcitool

.SH "ATTRIBUTES"
.PP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

  _________________________________________________________
 | ATTRIBUTE TYPE       | ATTRIBUTE VALUE                  |
 |______________________|__________________________________|
 | Architecture         | PCI-based systems                |
 |______________________|__________________________________|
 | Availability         | SUNWio-tools                     |
 |______________________|__________________________________|
 | Interface Stability  | Volatile                         |
 |______________________|__________________________________|

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pci (4),
.BR su (1M),
.BR user_attr (4),
.BR rbac (5)

.SH NOTES
All values are entered in hex.

Not all commands are applicable to all platforms.

REFERENCES

PCI specification (available from www.pcisig.org)
