'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pkgrm 1M "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
pkgrm \- remove a package from the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpkgrm\fR [\fB-nv\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIadmin\fR] [ [\fB-A\fR | \fB-M\fR] \fB-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
     [\fB-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
     [pkginst.\|.\|. | \fB-Y\fR \fIcategory\fR[,\fIcategory\fR\&.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpkgrm\fR \fB-s\fR \fIspool\fR
     [pkginst.\|.\|. | \fB-Y\fR \fIcategory\fR[,\fIcategory\fR\&.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgrm\fR will remove a previously installed or partially installed
package from the system. A check is made to determine if any other packages
depend on the one being removed. If a dependency exists, the action taken is
defined in the
.B admin
file.
.sp
.LP
The default state for the command is in interactive mode, meaning that
prompt messages are given during processing to allow the administrator to
confirm the actions being taken. Non-interactive mode can be requested with
the
.B -n
option.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -s
option can be used to specify the directory from which spooled
packages should be removed.
.sp
.LP
Certain unbundled and third-party packages are no longer entirely
compatible with the latest version of
.BR pkgrm .
These packages require
user interaction throughout the removal and not just at the very
beginning.
.sp
.LP
To remove these older packages (released prior to Solaris 2.4), set the
following environment variable:\fBNONABI_SCRIPTS=TRUE pkgrm\fR permits
keyboard interaction throughout the removal as long as this environment
variable is set.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIadmin\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the installation administration file,
.BR admin ,
in place of the
default
.B admin
file.
.B pkgrm
first looks in the current working
directory for the administration file. If the specified administration file
is not in the current working directory,
.B pkgrm
looks in the
\fB/var/sadm/install/admin\fR directory for the administration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the package files from the client's file system, absolutely. If a
file is shared with other packages, the default behavior is to not remove
the file from the client's file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Instruct \fBpkgrm\fR not to use the \fB$\fIroot_path\fB/etc/vfstab\fR
file for determining the client's mount points. This option assumes the
mount points are correct on the server and it behaves consistently with
Solaris 2.5 and earlier releases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Non-interactive mode. If there is a need for interaction, the command will
exit.
.sp
Use of this option requires that at least one package instance be named
upon invocation of the command. Certain conditions must exist for a package
to be removed non-interactively or a non-restrictive
.B admin
file needs
to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines the full path name of a directory to use as the
.IR root_path .
All files, including package system information files, are relocated to a
directory tree starting in the specified
.IR root_path .
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with
the
.B -R
option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system,
might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the
non-global zone's file system. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIspool\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the specified package(s) from the directory
.IR spool .
The default
directory for spooled packages is
.BR /var/sadm/pkg .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trace all of the scripts that get executed by
.BR pkgrm ,
located in the
\fIpkginst\fB/install\fR directory. This option is used for debugging the
procedural and non-procedural scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternative \fIfs_file\fR to map the client's file systems. Used
in situations where the \fB$\fIroot_path\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file is
non-existent or unreliable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-Y\fR \fIcategory\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove packages based on the value of the
.B CATEGORY
parameter stored
in the installed or spooled package's
.BR pkginfo (4)
file. No package with
the
.B CATEGORY
value of
.B system
can removed from the file system
with this option.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pkginst
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the package to be removed. The format \fIpkginst\fB\&.*\fR can
be used to remove all instances of a package.
.sp
The asterisk character (\fB*\fR) is a special character to some shells and
may need to be escaped. In the C-Shell, "\fB*\fR" must be surrounded by
single quotes (\fB\&'\fR) or preceded by a backslash (\e).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Removing All Instances of \fBSUNWjunk\fR from
.B client1
.sp
.LP
The following example removes all instances of
.B SUNWjunk
from
.BR client1 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% pkgrm \fB-R\fR /export/root/client1 SUNWjunk*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note the caveat on the use of the
.B -R
option in the description of
that option, above.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fatal error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Warning.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Interruption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Administration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reboot after removal of all packages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reboot after removal of this package.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pkginfo (1),
.BR pkgmk (1),
.BR pkgparam (1),
.BR pkgproto (1),
.BR pkgtrans (1),
.BR installf (1M),
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR pkgask (1M),
.BR pkgchk (1M),
.BR removef (1M),
.BR admin (4),
.BR pkginfo (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Package commands are \fBlargefile\fR(5)-aware. They handle files larger
than 2 GB in the same way they handle smaller files. In their current
implementations,
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR pkgtrans (1)
and other package
commands can process a datastream of  up to 4 GB.
