'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pmconfig 1M "12 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
pmconfig \- Configure the Power Management system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/pmconfig\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pmconfig
utility sets the Power Management and suspend-resume
configuration. User has permission to change Power Management configuration
using
.B pmconfig
only if he is allowed to do so according to
.B PMCHANGEPERM
keyword of
.BR /etc/default/power .
User has permission
to change  the suspend-resume  configuration using
.B pmconfig
only if he
is allowed to do so according to the
.B CPRCHANGEPERM
keyword of
.BR /etc/default/power .
See FILES section below for a description of the
.B PMCHANGEPERM
and
.B CPRCHANGEPERM
keywords of
.BR /etc/default/power .
.sp
.LP
Based on user permissions,
.B pmconfig
first resets the Power
Management and/or   suspend-resume  state back to its default and then reads
the new  Power Management and/or   suspend-resume  configuration from
.B /etc/power.conf
and issues the commands to activiate the new
configuration. The
.B pmconfig
utility is run at system boot. This
utility can also be run from the command line after manual changes have been
made to the
.B /etc/power.conf
file. For editing changes made to the
.B /etc/power.conf
file to take effect, users must run \fBpmconfig\fR.
.sp
.LP
The preferred interface for changing  Power Management and suspend-resume
configuration is
.BR dtpower (1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
 Reset  Power Management and suspend-resume  state to default and exit. User must have both  Power Management and suspend-resume  configuration permission for this option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Upon successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/power.conf
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
System  Power Management configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/default/power
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
File that controls permissions for system's  Power Management and
suspend-resume features. The
.B PMCHANGEPERM
keyboard controls the Power
Management configuration permissions, while the
.B CPRCHANGEPERM
keyword
controls the  suspend-resume  configuration permissions.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Allowed values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Any user can change the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
No one except super-user can change the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB<user1, user2,.\|.\|.>\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A  user in this user list or a super-user can change the configuration. The
user list is a space and/or comma (,) separated list. You must enclose the
list in < and > characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B console-owner
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A  user who owns the system console device node or a super-user can change
the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The default values are
.B PMCHANGEPERM=console-owner
and
.BR CPRCHANGEPERM=console-owner .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpmu
_
Interface stability Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR powerd (1M),
.BR power.conf (4),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR cpr (7),
.BR pm (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Using Power Management
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B pmconfig
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/power:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
If the program cannot open the configuration file, it prints an error
message to standard error. If the program encounters a syntax error in the
configuration file, it prints an error message and the line number of the
error in the  configuration file. It then skips the rest of the information
on that line and processes the next line. Any configuration information
already processed on the line containing the error is used. If user does not
have permission to change Power Management and/or suspend-resume
configuration, and configuration file has entries for which user doesn't
have permission, it process the entries for which user has permissions and
prints error on rest.
