'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 Carnegie Mellon University. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by Carnegie Mellon University.
.\"
.\" The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\" derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Right Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH pppd 1M "21 Nov 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
pppd \- point to point protocol daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpppd\fR [\fItty_name\fR] [\fIspeed\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The point-to-point protocol (PPP) provides a method for transmitting
datagrams over serial point-to-point links. PPP is composed of three
components: a facility for encapsulating datagrams over serial links, an
extensible link control protocol (LCP), and a family of network control
protocols (NCP) for establishing and configuring different network-layer
protocols.
.sp
.LP
The encapsulation scheme is provided by driver code in the kernel.
.B pppd
provides the basic LCP authentication support and several NCPs
for establishing and configuring the Internet Protocol (referred to as the
IP Control Protocol or "IPCP") and IPv6 (IPV6CP).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following sections discuss the
.B pppd
options:
.SS "Options Files"
.sp
.LP
Options are taken from files and the command line.
.B pppd
reads options
from the files
.BR /etc/ppp/options ,
.B $HOME/.ppprc
and
\fB/etc/ppp/options.\fIttyname\fR (in that order) before processing the
options on the command line. (Command-line options are scanned for the
terminal name before the \fBoptions\fR.\fIttyname\fR file is read.) To form
the name of the \fBoptions\fR.\fIttyname\fR file, the initial \fB/dev/\fR is
removed from the terminal name, and any remaining forward slash characters
(/) are replaced with dots. For example, with serial device
.BR /dev/cua/a ,
option file
.B /etc/ppp/options.cua.a
is read.
.sp
.LP
An options file is parsed into a series of words that are delimited by
whitespace. Whitespace can be included in a word by enclosing the word in
double-quotes ("). A backslash (\e) quotes the succeeding character. A hash
(#) starts a comment, which continues until the end of the line. There is no
restriction on using the
.B file
or
.B call
options within an options
file.
.SS "Frequently Used Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <tty_name>
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Communicate over the named device. The string
.B /dev/
is prepended if
necessary. If no device name is given, or if the name of the terminal
connected to the standard input is given,
.B pppd
uses that terminal and
does not fork to put itself in the background. A value for this option from
a privileged source cannot be overridden by a non-privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <speed>
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the baud rate to <\fBspeed\fR> (a decimal number). The default is to
leave the baud rate unchanged. This option is normally needed for dial-out
only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B asyncmap
.I <map>
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the
.B async
character map to
.IR <map> \&.
The map describes which
control characters cannot be successfully received over the serial line.
.B pppd
asks the peer to send these characters as a 2-byte escape
sequence. The argument is a 32 bit hex number, with each bit representing a
character to escape. Bit 0 (00000001) represents the character 0x00; bit 31
(80000000) represents the character 0x1f or ^_. If multiple \fBasyncmap\fR
options are given, the values are
.B ORed
together. If no \fBasyncmap\fR
option is given,
.B pppd
attempts to negotiate a value of 0. If the peer
agrees, this disables escaping of the standard control characters. Use the
.B default-asyncmap
option to disable negotiation and escape all control
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auth
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Require the peer to authenticate itself before allowing network packets to
be sent or received. This option is the default if the system has a default
route. If the
.B auth
or the
.B noauth
option is not specified,
.B pppd
allows the peer to use only those IP addresses to which the
system does not already have a route.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B call
.I name
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Read options from the file \fB/etc/ppp/peers/\fIname\fR. This file may
contain privileged options, including
.BR noauth ,
even if
.B pppd
is
not being run by root. The
.I name
string may not begin with a slash
("/") or include consecutive periods \fB("..")\fR as a pathname component.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B callback
.I number
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Request a callback to the given telephone number using Microsoft CBCP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B connect
.I script
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Use the executable or shell command specified by
.I script
to set up the
serial line. This script would typically use the
.BR chat (1M)
program to
dial the modem and start the remote
.B PPP
session. A value for this
option originating from a privileged source cannot be overridden by a
non-privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crtscts
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Use hardware flow control, that is, RTS/CTS, to control the flow of data on
the serial port. If the
.BR crtscts ,
.BR nocrtscts ,
.B cdtrcts
or
.B nocdtrcts
option is not provided, the hardware flow control setting
for the serial port is left unchanged. Some serial ports lack a true RTS
output and use this mode to implement unidirectional flow control. The
serial port suspends transmission when requested by the modem by means of
CTS but cannot request the modem to stop sending to the computer. This mode
allows the use of DTR as a modem control line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B defaultroute
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Add a default route to the system routing tables when IPCP negotiation
successfully completes, using the peer as the gateway. This entry is removed
when the
.B PPP
connection is broken. This option is privileged if the
.B nodefaultroute
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disconnect
.BI " " script
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Run the executable or shell command specified by
.I script
after
.B pppd
terminates the link. Typically, this script is used to command
the modem to hang up if hardware modem control signals are not available.
.B disconnect
is not run if the modem has already hung up. A value for
this option originating from a privileged source cannot be overridden by a
non-privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B escape
\fIxx,yy,.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Specifies that certain characters be escaped on transmission regardless of
whether the peer requests them to be escaped with its
.B async
control
character map. The characters to be escaped are specified as a list of hex
numbers separated by commas. Note that almost any character can be specified
for the
.B escape
option, unlike the
.B asyncmap
option which allows
only control characters to be specified. Characters that cannot be escaped
are those containing hex values 0x20 through 0x3f and 0x5e.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B file
.I name
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Read options from file
.IR name .
If this option is used on the command
line or in
.BR $HOME/.ppprc ,
the file must be readable by the user
invoking
.BR pppd .
See  for a list of files that
.B pppd
always reads,
regardless of the use of this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B init
.I script
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Run the executable or shell command specified by
.I script
to initialize
the serial line. This script would typically use the
.BR chat (1M)
program
to configure the modem to enable auto-answer. A value for this option from a
privileged source cannot be overridden by a non-privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lock
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Directs
.B pppd
to create a UUCP-style lock file for the serial device
to ensure exclusive access to the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mru
.I n
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the Maximum Receive Unit (MRU) value to
.IR n .
.B pppd
asks the
peer to send packets of no more than
.I n
bytes. Minimum MRU value is
128. Default MRU value is 1500. A value of 296 is recommended for slow links
(40 bytes for TCP/IP header + 256 bytes of data). For IPv6, MRU must be at
least 1280.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mtu
.I n
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Set the Maximum Transmit Unit (MTU) value to
.IR n .
Unless the peer
requests a smaller value via MRU negotiation,
.B pppd
requests the kernel
networking code to send data packets of no more than
.I n
bytes through
the PPP network interface. For IPv6, MTU must be at least 1280.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B passive
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Enables the "passive" option in the LCP. With this option, \fBpppd\fR
attempts to initiate a connection; if no reply is received from the peer,
.B pppd
waits passively for a valid LCP packet instead of exiting, as it
would without this option.
.RE

.SS "Options"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <local_IP_address>:<remote_IP_address>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the local and/or remote interface IP addresses. Either one may be
omitted, but the colon is required. The IP addresses are specified with a
host name or in decimal dot notation, for example:
.BR :10.1.2.3 .
The
default local address is the first IP address of the system unless the
.B noipdefault
option is provided. The remote address is obtained from
the peer if not specified in any option. Thus, in simple cases, this option
is not required. If a local and/or remote IP address is specified with this
option,
.B pppd
will not accept a different value from the peer in the
IPCP negotiation unless the
.B ipcp-accept-local
and/or
.B ipcp-accept-remote
options are given, respectively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B allow-fcs
.I fcs-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set allowable FCS type(s) for data sent to the peer. The
.I fcs-type
is
a comma-separated list of "crc16", "crc32", "null", or integers. By default,
all known types are allowed. If this option is specified and the peer
requests a type not listed, a LCP Configure-Nak is sent to request only the
listed types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B allow-ip
.I address(es)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allow peers to use the given IP address or subnet without authenticating
themselves. The parameter is parsed in the same manner as each element of
the list of allowed IP addresses is parsed in the secrets files. See the
section more more details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bsdcomp
.I nr,nt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request that the peer compress packets that it sends using the BSD-Compress
scheme, with a maximum code size of
.I nr
bits, and agree to compress
packets sent to the peer with a maximum code size of
.I nt
bits. If
.I nt
is not specified, it defaults to the value given for
.IR nr .
Values in the range 9 to 15 may be used for
.I nr
and
.IR nt ;
larger
values provide better compression but consume more kernel memory for
compression dictionaries. Alternatively, a value of 0 for
.I nr
or
.I nt
disables compression in the corresponding direction. Use
.B nobsdcomp
or
.B "bsdcomp 0"
to disable BSD-Compress compression
entirely. If this option is read from a privileged source, a nonprivileged
user may not specify a code size larger than the value from the privileged
source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cdtrcts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use a non-standard hardware flow control such as DTR/CTS to control the
flow of data on the serial port. If the
.BR crtscts ,
.BR nocrtscts ,
.B cdtrcts
or
.B nocdtrcts
option is not specified, the hardware flow
control setting for the serial port is left unchanged. Some serial ports
lack a true RTS output. Such serial ports use this mode to implement true
bi-directional flow control. Note that this flow control mode does not
permit using DTR as a modem control line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B chap-interval
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this option is given,
.B pppd
will rechallenge the peer every
.IR n
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B chap-max-challenge
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of CHAP challenge transmissions to
.I n
(default
10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B chap-restart
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the CHAP restart interval (retransmission timeout for challenges) to
.I n
seconds. The default is 3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B connect-delay
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Wait for up to
.I n
milliseconds after the connect script finishes for a
valid PPP packet from the peer. When the wait period elapses or when a valid
PPP packet is received from the peer,
.B pppd
begins negotiation by
sending its first LCP packet. The default value is 1000 (1 second). A wait
period applies only if the
.B connect
or
.B pty
option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B datarate
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set maximum data rate to
.I n
(in bytes per second) when using the
.BR pty ,
.BR notty ,
.BR record ,
or
.B socket
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables connection debugging facilities. If this option is given,
.B pppd
logs the contents of all control packets sent or received in a
readable form. The packets are logged through syslog with facility
.B daemon
and level
.BR debug .
This information can be directed to a
file by configuring
.B /etc/syslog.conf
appropriately.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B default-asyncmap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable
.B asyncmap
negotiation, forcing all control characters to be
escaped for both the transmit and the receive direction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B default-fcs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable FCS Alternatives negotiation entirely. By default, no FCS
Alternatives option is sent to the peer, but the option is accepted. If this
option is specified by the peer, then LCP Configure-Reject is sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B default-mru
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable MRU [Maximum Receive Unit] negotiation. With this option,
.B pppd
uses the default MRU value of 1500 bytes for the transmit and
receive directions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B deflate
.I nr,nt,e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request that the peer compress packets that it sends, using the
.B deflate
scheme, with a maximum window size of
.I 2**nr
bytes, and
agree to compress packets sent to the peer with a maximum window size of
.I 2**nt
bytes and effort level of
.I e
(1 to 9). If
.I nt
is not
specified, it defaults to the value given for
.IR nr .
If
.I e
is not
specified, it defaults to 6. Values in the range 9 to 15 may be used for
.I nr
and
.IR nt ;
larger values provide better compression but consume
more kernel memory for compression dictionaries. (Value 8 is not permitted
due to a zlib bug.) Alternatively, a value of 0 for
.I nr
or
.IR nt
disables compression in the corresponding direction. Use
.B nodeflate
or
.B deflate 0
to disable
.B deflate
compression entirely. (Note:
.B pppd
requests deflate compression in preference to BSD-Compress if the
peer can do either.) If this option is read from a privileged source, a
nonprivileged user may not specify a code size larger than the value from
the privileged source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B demand
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Initiate the link only on demand, that is, when data traffic is present.
With this option, the remote IP address must be specified by the user on the
command line or in an options file.
.B pppd
initially configures and
enables the interface for IP traffic without connecting to the peer. When
traffic is available,
.B pppd
connects to the peer and performs
.RB "negotiation, authentication and other actions. When completed," " pppd"
passes data packets across the link. The
.B demand
option implies the
.B persist
option. If this behavior is not desired, use the
.B nopersist
option after the
.B demand
option. The
.B idle
and
.B holdoff
options can be used in conjunction with the
.BR demand
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B domain
.I d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append the domain name
.I d
to the local host name for authentication
purposes. For example, if
.B gethostname()
returns the name
.BR porsche ,
but the fully qualified domain name is
.BR porsche.Quotron.COM ,
you could specify
.BR "domain Quotron.COM" .
With
this configuration,
.B pppd
uses the name
.B porsche.Quotron.COM
for
accessing secrets in the secrets file and as the default name when
authenticating to the peer. This option is privileged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B endpoint
.I endpoint-value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the endpoint discriminator (normally used for RFC 1990 Multilink PPP
operation). The
.I endpoint-value
consists of a class identifier and a
class-dependent value. The class identifier is one of "null," "local," "IP,"
"MAC," "magic," "phone," or a decimal integer. If present, the
class-dependent value is separated from the identifier by a colon (":") or
period (".") . This value may be a standard dotted-decimal IP address for
class "IP," an optionally colon-or-dot separated hex Ethernet address for
class "MAC" (must have 6 numbers), or an arbitrary string of bytes specified
in hex with optional colon or dot separators between bytes. Although this
option is available, this implementation does not support multilink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fcs
.I fcs-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set FCS type(s) desired for data sent by the peer. The
.I fcs-type
is a
comma-separated list of
.BR crc16 ,
.BR crc32 ,
.BR null ,
or integers.
By default, an FCS Alternatives option is not specified, and the
medium-dependent FCS type is used. If this option is specified and the peer
sends an LCP Configure-Nak, only the listed types are used. If none are in
common, the FCS Alternatives option is omitted from the next LCP
Configure-Request to drop back to the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hide-password
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When logging the contents of PAP packets, this option causes
.B pppd
to
exclude the password string from the log. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B holdoff
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies how many seconds to wait before re-initiating the link after it
terminates. This option is effective only if the
.B persist
or
.B demand
option is used. The holdoff period is not applied if the link
is terminated because it was idle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ident
.I string
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the LCP Identification string. The default value is a version string
similar to that displayed by the
.B --version
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B idle
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that
.B pppd
must disconnect if the link is idle for
.IR n
seconds. The link is idle when no data packets (i.e. IP packets) are being
sent or received. Do not use this option with the
.B persist
option but
without the
.B demand
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-accept-local
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
accepts the peer's idea of the local IP
address, even if the local IP address is specified in an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-accept-remote
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
accepts the peer's idea of its remote IP
address, even if the remote IP address is specified in an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-max-configure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPCP Configure-Request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-max-failure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPCP Configure-NAKs sent before sending
Configure-Rejects instead to
.I n
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-max-terminate
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPCP terminate-request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipcp-restart
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the IPCP restart interval (retransmission timeout) to
.I n
seconds
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipparam
.I string
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Provides an extra parameter to the ip-up and ip-down scripts. When this
option is given, the
.I string
supplied is given as the sixth parameter
to those scripts. See the section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6
\fI<local_interface_identifier>\fR,\fI<remote_interface_identifier>\fR
\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the local and/or remote 64-bit interface identifier. Either one may be
omitted. The identifier must be specified in standard ASCII notation of IPv6
addresses (for example:
.BR ::dead:beef ).
If the
.BR ipv6cp-use-ipaddr
option is given, the local and remote identifiers are derived from the
.RB "respective IPv4 addresses (see above). The" " ipv6cp-use-persistent"
option can be used instead of the
.B "ipv6 <local>,<remote>"
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-accept-local
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Accept peer's interface identifier for the local link identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-max-configure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPv6CP Configure-Request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-max-failure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPv6CP Configure-NAKs sent before sending
Configure-Rejects instead to
.I n
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-max-terminate
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of IPv6CP terminate-request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-restart
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the IPv6CP restart interval (retransmission timeout) to
.I n
seconds
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-use-ipaddr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If either the local or remote IPv6 address is unspecified, use the
corresponding configured IPv4 address as a default interface identifier.
(This option uses the configured addresses, not the negotiated addresses. Do
not use it with
.B ipcp-accept-local
if the local IPv6 identifier is
unspecified or with
.B ipcp-accept-remote
if the remote IPv6 identifier
is unspecified.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6cp-use-persistent
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use uniquely-available persistent value for link local address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B kdebug
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable debugging code in the kernel-level PPP driver. Argument
.I n
is
the sum of the following values:
.B 1
to enable general debug messages,
.B 2
to request that contents of received packets be printed, and \fB4\fR
to request contents of transmitted packets be printed. Messages printed by
the kernel are logged by \fBsyslogd\fR(1M) to a file directed in the
.B /etc/syslog.conf
configuration file. Do not use the \fBkdebug\fR
option to debug failed links. Use the
.B debug
option instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-echo-failure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this option is given,
.B pppd
presumes the peer to be dead if
.IR n
LCP Echo-Requests are sent without receiving a valid LCP Echo-Reply. If this
happens,
.B pppd
terminates the connection. This option requires a
non-zero value for the
.B lcp-echo-interval
parameter. This option
enables
.B pppd
to terminate after the physical connection is broken (for
example, if the modem has hung up) in situations where no hardware modem
control lines are available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-echo-interval
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this option is given,
.B pppd
sends an LCP Echo-Request frame to the
peer every
.I n
seconds. Normally the peer responds to the Echo-Request
by sending an Echo-Reply. This option can be used with the
.B lcp-echo-failure
option to detect that the peer is no longer
connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-max-configure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of LCP Configure-Request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-max-failure
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of LCP Configure-NAKs sent before starting to send
Configure-Rejects instead to
.I n
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-max-terminate
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of LCP Terminate-Request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcp-restart
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the LCP restart interval (retransmission timeout) to
.I n
seconds
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B linkname
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the logical name of the link to
.IR name .
.B pppd
creates a file
named \fBppp-\fIname\fB\&.pid\fR in \fB/var/run\fR containing its
process ID. This is useful in determining which instance of
.B pppd
is
responsible for the link to a given peer system. This is a privileged
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B local
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not use modem control lines. With this option,
.B pppd
ignores the
state of the CD (Carrier Detect) signal from the modem and does not change
the state of the DTR (Data Terminal Ready) signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logfd
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send log messages to file descriptor
.IR n .
.B pppd
sends log messages
to (at most) one file or file descriptor (as well as sending the log
messages to syslog), so this option and the
.B logfile
option are
mutually exclusive. By default
.B pppd
sends log messages to
.BR stdout
(file descriptor 1) unless the serial port is open on stdout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logfile
.I filename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append log messages to the file
.I filename
(and send the log messages
to syslog). The file is opened in append mode with the privileges of the
user who invoked
.BR pppd .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B login
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the system password database for authenticating the peer using PAP, and
record the user in the system
.B wtmp
file. Note that the peer must have
an entry in the
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
file and the system password
database to be allowed access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B maxconnect
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Terminate the connection after it has been available for network traffic
for
.I n
seconds (that is,
.I n
seconds after the first network
control protocol starts). An LCP Time-Remaining message is sent when the
first NCP starts, and again when 5, 2, and 0.5 minutes are remaining.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B maxfail
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Terminate after
.I n
consecutive failed connection attempts. A value of
0 means no limit. The default value is 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B modem
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the modem control lines. This option is the default. With this option,
.B pppd
waits for the CD (Carrier Detect) signal from the modem to be
asserted when opening the serial device (unless a connect script is
specified), and drops the DTR (Data Terminal Ready) signal briefly when the
connection is terminated and before executing the connect script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ms-dns
.I <addr>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B pppd
is acting as a server for Microsoft Windows clients, this
option allows
.B pppd
to supply one or two DNS (Domain Name Server)
addresses to the clients. The first instance of this option specifies the
primary DNS address; the second instance (if given) specifies the secondary
DNS address. If the first instance specifies a name that resolves to
multiple IP addresses, then the first two addresses are used. (This option
is present in some older versions of
.B pppd
under the name
.BR dns-addr .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ms-lanman
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B pppd
connects as a client to a Microsoft server and uses MS-CHAPv1
for authentication, this option selects the LAN Manager password style
instead of Microsoft NT.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ms-wins
.I <addr>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B pppd
acts as a server for Microsoft Windows or Samba clients, this
option allows
.B pppd
to supply one or two WINS (Windows Internet Name
Services) server addresses to the clients. The first instance of this option
specifies the primary WINS address; the second instance (if given) specifies
the secondary WINS address. As with
.BR ms-dns ,
if the name specified
resolves to multiple IP addresses, then the first two will be taken as
primary and secondary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B name
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the name of the local system for authentication purposes to
.IR name .
This is a privileged option. With this option,
.B pppd
uses lines in the
secrets files that have
.I name
as the second field to look for a secret
to use in authenticating the peer. In addition, unless overridden with the
.B user
option,
.I name
is used as the name to send to the peer when
authenticating the local system. (Note that
.B pppd
does not append the
domain name to
.IR name .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no-accm-test
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable use of
.B asyncmap
(ACCM) checking using LCP Echo-Request
messages. If the
.B lcp-echo-failure
is used on an asynchronous line,
.B pppd
includes all control characters in the first
.I n
LCP
Echo-Request messages. If the
.B asyncmap
is set incorrectly, the link
drops rather than continue operation with random failures. This option
disables that feature.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noaccomp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable HDLC Address/Control compression in both directions (send and
receive).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noauth
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not require the peer to authenticate itself. This option is
privileged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nobsdcomp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables BSD-Compress compression;
.B pppd
will not request or agree to
compress packets using the BSD-Compress scheme. This option is not necessary
if
.B noccp
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noccp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable CCP (Compression Control Protocol) negotiation. This option should
only be required if the peer has bugs or becomes confused by requests from
.B pppd
for CCP negotiation. If CCP is disabled, then BSD and deflate
compression do not need to be separately disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocrtscts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable hardware flow control (i.e. RTS/CTS) on the serial port. If the
.BR crtscts ,
.BR nocrtscts ,
.B cdtrcts
or
.B nocdtrcts
options are
not given, the hardware flow control setting for the serial port is left
unchanged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocdtrcts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option is a synonym for
.BR nocrtscts .
Either option will disable
both forms of hardware flow control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nodefaultroute
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the
.B defaultroute
option. You can prevent non-root users from
creating default routes with
.B pppd
by placing this option in the
.B /etc/ppp/options
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nodeflate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables deflate compression;
.B pppd
will not request or agree to
compress packets using the deflate scheme. This option is not necessary if
.B noccp
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nodeflatedraft
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not use Internet Draft (incorrectly assigned) algorithm number for
deflate compression. This option is not necessary if
.B noccp
is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nodetach
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not detach from the controlling terminal. Without this option,
.B pppd
forks to become a background process if a serial device other
than the terminal on the standard input is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noendpoint
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not send or accept the Multilink Endpoint Discriminator option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noident
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable use of LCP Identification. LCP Identification messages will not be
sent to the peer, but received messages will be logged. (Specify this option
twice to completely disable LCP Identification. In this case, \fBpppd\fR
sends LCP Code-Reject in response to received LCP Identification
messages.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noip
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable IPCP negotiation and IP communication. Use this option only if the
peer has bugs or becomes confused by requests from
.B pppd
for IPCP
negotiation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noipv6
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable IPv6CP negotiation and IPv6 communication. IPv6 is not enabled by
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noipdefault
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the default behavior when no local IP address is specified, which
is to determine (if possible) the local IP address from the hostname. With
this option, the peer must supply the local IP address during IPCP
negotiation (unless it specified explicitly on the command line or in an
options file).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nolog
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not send log messages to a file or file descriptor. This option cancels
the \fBlogfd\fR and \fBlogfile\fR options. \fBnologfd\fR acts as an alias
for this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nomagic
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable magic number negotiation. With this option,
.B pppd
cannot
detect a looped-back line. Use this option only if the peer has bugs. Do not
use this option to work around the "Serial line is looped back" error
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nopam
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This privileged option disables use of pluggable authentication modules. If
this option is specified,
.B pppd
reverts to standard authentication
mechanisms. The default is not to use PAM.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nopcomp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable protocol field compression negotiation in the receive and the
transmit direction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nopersist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exit once a connection has been made and terminated. This is the default
unless the
.B persist
or
.B demand
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noplink
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause
.B pppd
to use I_LINK instead of I_PLINK. This is the default.
When I_LINK is used, the system cleans up terminated interfaces (even when
SIGKILL is used) but does not allow \fBifconfig\fR(1M) to unplumb PPP
streams or insert or remove modules dynamically. Use the
.B plink
option
if \fBifconfig\fR(1M) modinsert, modremove or unplumb support is needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nopredictor1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not accept or agree to Predictor-1 compression. (This option is accepted
for compatibility. The implementation does not support Predictor-1
compression.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noproxyarp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the
.B proxyarp
option. If you want to prevent users from
creating proxy ARP entries with
.BR pppd ,
place this option in the
.B /etc/ppp/options
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B notty
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Normally,
.B pppd
requires a terminal device. With this option,
.B pppd
allocates itself a pseudo-tty master/slave pair and uses the
slave as its terminal device.
.B pppd
creates a child process to act as a
character shunt to transfer characters between the pseudo-tty master and its
standard input and output. Thus,
.B pppd
transmits characters on its
standard output and receives characters on its standard input even if they
are not terminal devices. This option increases the latency and CPU overhead
of transferring data over the ppp interface as all of the characters sent
and received must flow through the character shunt process. An explicit
device name may not be given if this option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B novj
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable Van Jacobson style TCP/IP header compression in both the transmit
and the receive direction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B novjccomp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the connection-ID compression option in Van Jacobson style TCP/IP
header compression. With this option,
.B pppd
does not omit the
connection-ID byte from Van Jacobson compressed TCP/IP headers, nor does it
ask the peer to do so. This option is unnecessary if
.B novj
is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pam
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This privileged option enables use of PAM. If this is specified, \fBpppd\fR
uses the \fBpam\fR(3PAM) framework for user authentication with a service
name of "ppp" if the \fBlogin\fR option and PAP authentication are used. The
default is not to use PAM.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B papcrypt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that
.B pppd
should not accept a password which, before
encryption, is identical to the secret from the \fB/etc/ppp/pap-secrets\fR
file. Use this option if the secrets in the
.B pap-secrets
file are in
.BR crypt (3C)
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pap-max-authreq
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum number of PAP authenticate-request transmissions to \fIn\fR
(default 10).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pap-restart
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the PAP restart interval (retransmission timeout) to
.I n
seconds
(default 3).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pap-timeout
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum time that
.B pppd
waits for the peer to authenticate
itself with PAP to
.I n
seconds (0= no limit). The default is 30
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B password
.I string
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password string for authentication to the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B persist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not exit after a connection is terminated; instead try to reopen the
connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B plink
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause
.B pppd
to use I_PLINK instead of I_LINK. The default is to use
I_LINK, which cleans up terminated interface (even if SIGKILL is used), but
does not allow \fBifconfig\fR(1M) to unplumb PPP streams or insert or remove
modules dynamically. Use this option if \fBifconfig\fR(1M)
.RB "modinsert/modremove/unplumb support is needed. See also the" " plumbed"
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B plugin
.I filename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Load the shared library object file
.I filename
as a plugin. This is a
privileged option. Unless the filename specifies an explicit path,
.B /etc/ppp/plugins
and
.B /usr/lib/inet/ppp
will be searched for the
object to load in that order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B plumbed
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option indicates that
.B pppd
should find a plumbed interface and
use that for the session. If IPv4 addresses or IPv6 interface IDs or link
MTU are otherwise unspecified, they are copied from the interface selected.
This mode mimics some of the functionality of the older
.BR aspppd
implementation and may be helpful when
.B pppd
is used with external
applications that use \fBifconfig\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pppmux
.I timer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable PPP Multiplexing option negotiation and set transmit multiplexing
timeout to
.I timer
microseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B privgroup
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows members of group
.I group-name
to use privileged options. This is
a privileged option. Because there is no guarantee that members of
.I group-name
cannot use
.B pppd
to become root themselves, you should
be careful using this option. Consider it equivalent to putting the members
of
.I group-name
in the
.B root
or
.B sys
group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B proxyarp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add an entry to the system's Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) table with
the IP address of the peer and the Ethernet address of this system. When you
use this option, the peer appears to other systems to be on the local
Ethernet. The remote address on the PPP link must be in the same subnet as
assigned to an Ethernet interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pty
.BI " " script
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the command
.IR script ,
and not a specific terminal device
is used for serial communication.
.B pppd
allocates itself a pseudo-tty
.RI "master/slave pair and uses the slave as its terminal device." " script"
runs in a child process with the pseudo-tty master as its standard input and
output. An explicit device name may not be given if this option is used.
(Note: if the
.B record
option is used in conjunction with the
.BR pty
option, the child process will have pipes on its standard input and
output.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B receive-all
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
accepts all control characters from the peer,
including those marked in the receive
.BR asyncmap .
Without this option,
.B pppd
discards those characters as specified in
.IR "RFC 1662" .
This
option should be used only if the peer has bugs, as is often found with
dial-back implementations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B record
.I filename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directs
.B pppd
to record all characters sent and received to a file
named
.IR filename .
.I filename
is opened in append mode, using the
user's user-ID and permissions. Because this option uses a pseudo-tty and a
process to transfer characters between the pseudo-tty and the real serial
device, it increases the latency and CPU overhead of transferring data over
the PPP interface. Characters are stored in a tagged format with timestamps
that can be displayed in readable form using the
.BR pppdump "(1M) program."
This option is generally used when debugging the kernel portion of
.B pppd
(especially CCP compression algorithms) and not for debugging
link configuration problems. See the
.B debug
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B remotename
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the assumed name of the remote system for authentication purposes to
.IR name .
Microsoft WindowsNT does not provide a system name in its CHAP
Challenge messages, and this option is often used to work around this
problem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refuse-chap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
will not agree to authenticate itself to the
peer using standard Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP).
(MS-CHAP is not affected.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refuse-mschap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not agree to authenticate to peer with MS-CHAPv1. If this option is
specified, requests for MS-CHAPv1 authentication from the peer are declined
with LCP Configure-Nak. That option does not disable any other form of
CHAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refuse-mschapv2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not agree to authenticate to peer with MS-CHAPv2. If specified, this
option requests that MS-CHAPv2 authentication from the peer be declined with
LCP Configure-Nak. That option does not disable any other form of CHAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refuse-pap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
will not agree to authenticate itself to the
peer using Password Authentication Protocol (PAP).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B require-chap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Require the peer to authenticate itself using standard CHAP authentication.
MS-CHAP is not affected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B require-mschap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Require the peer to authenticate itself using MS-CHAPv1 authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B require-mschapv2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Require the peer to authenticate itself using MS-CHAPv2 authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B require-pap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Require the peer to authenticate itself using PAP authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B show-password
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When logging contents of PAP packets, this option causes
.B pppd
to show
the password string in the log message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B silent
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
will not transmit LCP packets to initiate a
connection until a valid LCP packet is received from the peer. This is like
the "passive" option with older versions of \fBpppd\fR and is retained for
compatibility, but the current
.B passive
option is preferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B small-accm-test
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When checking the
.B asyncmap
(ACCM) setting,
.B pppd
uses all 256
possible values by default. See
.BR no-accm-test .
This option restricts
the test so that only the 32 values affected by standard ACCM negotiation
are tested. This option is useful on very slow links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsocket\fR \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connect to given host and port using TCP and run PPP over this
connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sync
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use synchronous HDLC serial encoding instead of asynchronous. The device
used by
.B pppd
with this option must have sync support. Currently
supports
.BR zs ,
.BR se ,
and
.B hsi
drivers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unit
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set PPP interface unit number to
.IR n ,
if possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B updetach
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With this option,
.B pppd
detaches from its controlling terminal after
establishing the PPP connection. When this is specified, messages sent to
.B stderr
by the connect script, usually
.BR chat (1M),
and debugging
messages from the debug option are directed to
.BR pppd "'s standard"
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B usehostname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enforce the use of the hostname with domain name appended, if given, as the
name of the local system for authentication purposes. This overrides the
.B name
option. Because the
.B name
option is privileged, this option
is normally not needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B usepeerdns
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ask the peer for up to two DNS server addresses. Addresses supplied by the
peer, if any, are passed to the
.B /etc/ppp/ip-up
script in the
environment variables DNS1 and DNS2. In addition,
.B pppd
creates an
.B /etc/ppp/resolv.conf
file containing one or two nameserver lines with
the address(es) supplied by the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B user
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the name used for authenticating the local system to the peer to
.IR name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vj-max-slots
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the number of connection slots to be used by the Van Jacobson TCP/IP
header compression and decompression code to
.IR n ,
which must be between
2 and 16 (inclusive).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B welcome
.I script
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run the executable or shell command specified by
.I script
before
initiating PPP negotiation, after the connect script, if any, has completed.
A value for this option from a privileged source cannot be overridden by a
non-privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xonxoff
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use software flow control, that is, XON/XOFF, to control the flow of data
on the serial port.
.RE

.SS "Obsolete Options"
.sp
.LP
The following options are obsolete:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B +ua
.I name
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Read a PAP user name and password from the file
.IR name .
This file must
have two lines for name and password. Name and password are sent to the peer
when the peer requests PAP authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B +ipv6
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enable IPv6 and IPv6CP without specifying interface identifiers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --version
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Show version number and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --help
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Show brief help message and exit.
.RE

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The following sections discuss miscellaneous features of
.BR pppd :
.SS "Security"
.sp
.LP
.B pppd
allows system administrators to provide legitimate users with
PPP access to a server machine without fear of compromising the security of
the server or the network it runs on. Access control is provided by
restricting IP addresses the peer may use based on its authenticated
identity (if any), and through restrictions on options a non-privileged user
may use. Options that permit potentially insecure configurations are
privileged. Privileged options are accepted only in files that are under the
control of the system administrator or when
.B pppd
is being run by
root.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B pppd
allows an unauthenticated peer to use a given IP
address only if the system does not already have a route to that IP address.
For example, a system with a permanent connection to the wider Internet will
normally have a default route, meaning all peers must authenticate
themselves to set up a connection. On such a system, the
.B auth
option
is the default. Conversely, a system with a PPP link that comprises the only
connection to the Internet probably does not possess a default route, so the
peer can use virtually any IP address without authenticating itself.
.sp
.LP
Security-sensitive options are privileged and cannot be accessed by a
non-privileged user running
.BR pppd ,
either on the command line, in the
user's
.B $HOME/.ppprc
file, or in an options file read using the
.B file
option. Privileged options may be used in
.B /etc/ppp/options
file or in an options file read using the
.B call
option. If \fBpppd\fR
is run by the root user, privileged options can be used without restriction.
If the
.B /etc/ppp/options
file does not exist, then only root may invoke
.BR pppd .
The
.B /etc/ppp/options
file must be created (but may be
empty) to allow ordinary non-root users to access
.BR pppd .
.sp
.LP
When opening the device,
.B pppd
uses the invoking user's user ID or the
root UID (that is, 0), depending if the device name was specified by the
user or the system administrator. If the device name comes from a privileged
source, that is,
.B /etc/ppp/options
or an options file read using the
.B call
option,
.B pppd
uses full root privileges when opening the
device. Thus, by creating an appropriate file under
.BR /etc/ppp/peers ,
the system administrator can allow users to establish a PPP connection via a
.RB "device that they 	would not normally have access to. Otherwise" " pppd"
uses the invoking user's real UID when opening the device.
.SS "Authentication"
.sp
.LP
During the authentication process, one peer convinces the other of its
identity by sending its name and some secret information to the other.
During authentication, the first peer becomes the "client" and the second
becomes the "server." Authentication names can (but are not required to)
correspond to the peer's Internet hostnames.
.sp
.LP
.B pppd
supports four authentication protocols: the Password
Authentication Protocol (PAP) and three forms of the Challenge Handshake
Authentication Protocol (CHAP). With the PAP protocol, the client sends its
name and a cleartext password to the server to authenticate itself. With
CHAP, the server initiates the authentication exchange by sending a
challenge to the client who must respond with its name and a hash value
derived from the shared secret and the challenge.
.sp
.LP
The PPP protocol is symmetrical, meaning that each peer may be required to
authenticate itself to the other. Different authentication protocols and
names can be used for each exchange.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B pppd
authenticates if requested and does not require
authentication from the peer. However,
.B pppd
does not authenticate
itself with a specific protocol if it has no secrets that can do so.
.sp
.LP
.B pppd
stores authentication secrets in the
.BR /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
(for PAP), and
.B /etc/ppp/chap-secrets
(for CHAP) files. Both files use
the same format.
.B pppd
uses secrets files to authenticate itself to
other systems and to authenticate other systems to itself.
.sp
.LP
Secrets files contain one secret per line. Secrets are specific to a
particular combination of client and server and can only be used by that
client to authenticate itself to that server. Each line in a secrets file
has a minimum of three fields that contain the client and server names
followed by the secret. Often, these three fields are followed by IP
addresses that are used by clients to connect to a server.
.sp
.LP
A secrets file is parsed into words, with client name, server name and
secrets fields allocated one word each. Embedded spaces or other special
characters within a word must be quoted or escaped. Case is significant in
all three fields.
.sp
.LP
A secret beginning with an at sign ("@") is followed by the name of a file
containing the secret. An asterisk (*) as the client or server name matches
any name. When choosing a match,
.B pppd
selects the one with the fewest
wildcards. Succeeding words on a line are interpreted by
.B pppd
as
acceptable IP addresses for that client. IP Addresses are disallowed if they
appear in lines that contain only three words or lines whose first word
begins with a hyphen ("-"). To allow any address, use "*". An address
starting with an exclamation point ("!") indicates that the specified
address is not acceptable. An address may be followed by "/" and a number
.I n
to indicate a whole subnet (all addresses that have the same value
in the most significant
.I n
bits). In this form, the address may be
followed by a plus sign ("+") to indicate that one address from the subnet
is authorized, based on the ppp network interface unit number in use. In
this case, the host part of the address is set to the unit number, plus
one.
.sp
.LP
When authenticating the peer,
.B pppd
chooses a secret with the peer's
name in the first field of the secrets file and the name of the local system
in the second field. The local system name defaults to the hostname, with
the domain name appended if the
.B domain
option is used. The default can
be overridden with the
.B name
option unless the
.B usehostname
option
is used.
.sp
.LP
When authenticating to the peer,
.B pppd
first determines the name it
will use to identify itself to the peer. This name is specified with the
.B user
option. If the
.B user
option is not used, the name defaults
to the host name of the local system.
.B pppd
then selects a secret from
the secrets file by searching for an entry with a local name in the first
field and the peer's name in the second field.
.B pppd
will know the name
of the peer if standard CHAP authentication is used because the peer will
have sent it in the Challenge packet. However, if MS-CHAP or PAP is being
used,
.B pppd
must determine the peer's name from the options specified
by the user. The user can specify the peer's name directly with the
.B remotename
option. Otherwise, if the remote IP address was specified
by a name, rather than in numeric form, that name will be used as the peer's
name. If that fails,
.B pppd
uses the null string as the peer's name.
.sp
.LP
When authenticating the peer with PAP, the supplied password	is compared
with data in the secrets file. If the password and secret do not match, the
password is encrypted using
.B crypt()
and checked against the secret
again. If the
.B papcrypt
option is given, the first unencrypted
comparison is omitted for better security, and entries must thus be in
encrypted
.BR crypt (3C)
form.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B login
option is specified, the username and password are also
checked against the system password database. This allows you to set up the
.B pap-secrets
file to enable PPP access only to certain users, and to
restrict the set of IP addresses available to users. Typically, when using
the
.B login
option, the secret in
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
would be
"", which matches any password supplied by the peer. This makes having the
same secret in two places unnecessary. When
.B login
is used, the
.B pam
option enables access control through
.BR pam (3PAM).
.sp
.LP
Authentication must be completed before IPCP (or other network protocol)
can be started. If the peer is required to authenticate itself and fails,
.B pppd
closes LCP and terminates the link. If IPCP negotiates an
unacceptable IP address for the remote host, IPCP is closed. IP packets are
sent or received only when IPCP is open.
.sp
.LP
To allow hosts that cannot authenticate themselves to connect 	and use one
of a restricted set of IP addresses, add a line to the \fBpap-secrets\fR
file specifying the empty string for the client name and secret.
.sp
.LP
Additional
.B pppd
options for a given peer may be specified by placing
them at the end of the secrets entry, separated by two dashes (--). For
example
.sp
.in +2
.nf
peername servername secret ip-address -- novj
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Routing"
.sp
.LP
When IPCP negotiation is complete,
.B pppd
informs the kernel of the
local and remote IP addresses for the PPP interface and creates a host route
to the remote end of the link that enables peers to exchange IP packets.
Communication with other machines generally requires further modification to
routing tables and/or Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) tables. In most
cases the \fBdefaultroute\fR and/or \fBproxyarp\fR options are sufficient
for this, but further intervention may be necessary. If further intervention
is required, use the
.B /etc/ppp/ip-up
script or a routing protocol
daemon.
.sp
.LP
To add a default route through the remote host, use the \fBdefaultroute\fR
option. This option is typically used for "client" systems; that is,
end-nodes that use the PPP link for access to the general Internet.
.sp
.LP
In some cases it is desirable to use proxy ARP, for example on a server
machine connected to a LAN, to allow other hosts to communicate with the
remote host.
.B proxyarp
instructs
.B pppd
to look for a network
interface on the same subnet as the remote host. That is, an interface
supporting broadcast and ARP that is not a point-to-point or loopback
interface and that is currently up. If found,
.B pppd
creates a
permanent, published ARP entry with the IP address of the remote host and
the hardware address of the network interface.
.sp
.LP
When the
.B demand
option is used, the interface IP addresses are
already set at the time when IPCP comes up. If
.B pppd
cannot negotiate
the same addresses it used to configure the interface, it changes the
interface IP addresses to the negotiated addresses. This may disrupt
existing connections. Using demand dialing with peers that perform dynamic
IP address assignment is not recommended.
.SS "Scripts"
.sp
.LP
.B pppd
invokes scripts at various stages during processing that are
used to perform site-specific ancillary processing. These scripts may be
shell scripts or executable programs.
.B pppd
does not wait for the
scripts to finish. The scripts are executed as
.B root
(with the real and
effective user-id set to 0), enabling them to update routing tables, run
privileged daemons, or perform other tasks. Be sure that the contents of
these scripts do not compromise your system's security.
.B pppd
runs the
scripts with standard input, output and error redirected to
.BR /dev/null ,
and with an environment that is empty except for some environment variables
that give information about the link. The
.B pppd
environment variables
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DEVICE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Name of the serial tty device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IFNAME
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Name of the network interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPLOCAL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
IP address for the link's local end. This is set only when IPCP has
started.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPREMOTE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
IP address for the link's remote end. This is set only when IPCP has
started.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PEERNAME
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Authenticated name of the peer. This is set only if the peer authenticates
itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SPEED
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Baud rate of the tty device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ORIG_UID
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Real user-id of user who invoked
.BR pppd .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PPPLOGNAME
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Username of the real user-id who invoked
.BR pppd .
This is always set.
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B pppd
also sets the following variables for the ip-down and auth-down
scripts:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONNECT_TIME
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Number of seconds between the start of PPP negotiation and connection
termination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BYTES_SENT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Number of bytes sent at the level of the serial port during the
connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BYTES_RCVD
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Number of bytes received at the level of the serial port during the
connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LINKNAME
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Logical name of the link, set with the
.B linkname
option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If they exist,
.B pppd
invokes the following scripts. It is not an error
if they do not exist.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/auth-up
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Program or script executed after the remote system successfully
authenticates itself. It is executed with five command-line arguments:
.BR "interface-name peer-name user-name tty-device speed" .
Note that this
script is not executed if the peer does not authenticate itself, for
example, when the
.B noauth
option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/auth-down
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Program or script executed when the link goes down if
.B /etc/ppp/auth-up
was previously executed. It is executed in the same
manner with the same parameters as
.BR /etc/ppp/auth-up .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/ip-up
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A program or script that is executed when the link is available for sending
and receiving IP packets (that is, IPCP has come up). It is executed with
six command-line arguments: \fBinterface-name tty-device speed
local-IP-address remote-IP-address ipparam\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/ip-down
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A program or script which is executed when the link is no longer available
for sending and receiving IP packets. This script can be used for undoing
the effects of the
.B /etc/ppp/ip-up
script. It is invoked in the same
manner and with the same parameters as the
.B ip-up
script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/ipv6-up
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Similar to
.BR /etc/ppp/ip-up ,
except that it is executed when the link
is available for sending and receiving IPv6 packets. Executed with six
command-line arguments: \fBinterface-name tty-device speed
local-link-local-address remote-link-local-address ipparam\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/ipv6-down
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Similar to
.BR /etc/ppp/ip-down ,
but executed when IPv6 packets can no
longer be transmitted on the link. Executed with the same parameters as the
ipv6-up script.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B auth
Option
.sp
.LP
The following examples assume that the
.B /etc/ppp/options
file contains
the
.B auth
option.

.sp
.LP
.B pppd
is commonly used to dial out to an ISP. You can do this using
the "\fBpppd call isp\fR" command where the \fB/etc/ppp/peers/isp\fR file is
set up to contain a line similar to the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
cua/a 19200 crtscts connect '/usr/bin/chat -f /etc/ppp/chat-isp' noauth
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For this example,
.BR chat (1M)
is used to dial the ISP's modem and
process any login sequence required. The
.B /etc/ppp/chat-isp
file is
used by
.B chat
and could contain the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ABORT "NO CARRIER"
ABORT "NO DIALTONE"
ABORT "ERROR"
ABORT "NO ANSWER"
ABORT "BUSY"
ABORT "Username/Password Incorrect"
"" "at"
OK "at&f&d2&c1"
OK "atdt2468135"
"name:" "^Umyuserid"
"word:" "\qmypassword"
"ispts" "\q^Uppp"
"~-^Uppp-~"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See the \fBchat\fR(1M) man page for details of
.B chat
scripts.

.LP
.B Example 2
Using
.B pppd
with
.BR proxyarp
.sp
.LP
.B pppd
can also provide a dial-in ppp service for users. If the users
already have login accounts, the simplest way to set up the ppp service is
to let the users log in to their accounts and run
.B pppd
as shown in the
following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpppd proxyarp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Providing a User with Access to PPP Facilities
.sp
.LP
To provide a user with access to the PPP facilities, allocate an IP address
for the user's machine, create an entry in
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
or
.BR /etc/ppp/chap-secrets .
This enables the user's machine to authenticate
itself. For example, to enable user "Joe" using machine "joespc" to dial in
to machine "server" and use the IP address "joespc.my.net," add the
following entry to the
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
or
.B /etc/ppp/chap-secrets
files:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBjoespc	server	"joe's secret"	joespc.my.net\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Alternatively, you can create another username, for example "ppp," whose
login shell is
.B /usr/bin/pppd
and whose home directory is
.BR /etc/ppp .
If you run
.B pppd
this way, add the options to the
.B /etc/ppp/.ppprc
file.

.sp
.LP
If your serial connection is complex, it may be useful to escape such
control characters as XON (^Q) and XOFF (^S), using
.BR "asyncmap a0000" .
If
the path includes a telnet, escape ^] (\fBasyncmap 200a0000\fR). If the path
includes a
.B rlogin
command, add
.B "escape ff"
option to the options,
because
.B rlogin
removes the window-size-change sequence [0xff, 0xff,
0x73, 0x73, followed by any 8 bytes] from the stream.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pppd
exit status indicates errors or specifies why a link was
terminated. Exit status values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
.B pppd
has detached or the connection was successfully established and
terminated at the peer's request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An immediately fatal error occurred. For example, an essential system call
failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error was detected in the options given. For example, two mutually
exclusive options were used, or
.B /etc/ppp/options
is missing and the
user is not root.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
.B pppd
is not
.B setuid-root
and the invoking user is not root.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The kernel does not support PPP. For example, the PPP kernel driver is not
included or cannot be loaded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 5
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
.B pppd
terminated because it was sent a SIGINT, SIGTERM or SIGHUP
signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 6
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The serial port could not be locked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 7
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The serial port could not be opened.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 8
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The connect script failed and returned a non-zero exit status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 9
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The command specified as the argument to the
.B pty
option could not be
run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The PPP negotiation failed because no network protocols were able to run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 11
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The peer system failed or refused to authenticate itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 12
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The link was established successfully, but terminated because it was
idle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 13
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The link was established successfully, but terminated because the connect
time limit was reached.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 14
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Callback was negotiated and an incoming call should arrive shortly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 15
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The link was terminated because the peer is not responding to echo
requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 16
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The link was terminated by the modem hanging up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 17
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The PPP negotiation failed because serial loopback was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 18
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The init script failed because a non-zero exit status was returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 19
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Authentication to the peer failed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/run/sppp\fIn\fB\&.pid\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Process-ID for
.B pppd
process on PPP interface unit
.IR n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/run/ppp-\fIname\fB\&.pid\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Process-ID for
.B pppd
process for logical link name (see the
.B linkname
option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Usernames, passwords and IP addresses for PAP authentication. This file
should be owned by root and not readable or writable by any other user,
otherwise
.B pppd
will log a warning.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/chap-secrets
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Names, secrets and IP addresses for all forms of CHAP authentication. The
.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
file should be owned by
.B root
should not
readable or writable by any other user, otherwise,
.B pppd
will log a
warning.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/options
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
System default options for
.BR pppd ,
read before user default options or
command-line options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ppprc
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
User default options, read before \fB/etc/ppp/options.\fIttyname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/ppp/options.\fIttyname\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
System default options for the serial port in use; read after
.BR $HOME/.ppprc .
The
.I ttyname
component of this filename is formed
when the initial
.B /dev/
is stripped from the port name (if present),
and slashes (if any) are converted to dots.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/peers
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Directory with options files that may contain privileged options, even if
.B pppd
was invoked by a user other than
.BR root .
The system
administrator can create options files in this directory to permit
non-privileged users to dial out without requiring the peer to authenticate,
but only to certain trusted peers.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpppdu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chat (1M),
.BR ifconfig (1M),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Haskin, D., Allen, E.
.IR "RFC 2472 - IP Version 6 Over PPP" .
Network
Working Group. December 1998.
.sp
.LP
Jacobson, V. \fIRFC 1144, Compressing TCP/IP Headers for Low-Speed Serial
Links\fR. Network Working Group. February, 1990
.sp
.LP
Lloyd, B., Simpson, W.
.IR "RFC 1334, PPP Authentication Protocols" .
Network Working Group. October 1992.
.sp
.LP
McGregor, G. \fIRFC 1332, The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol
(IPCP)\fR. Network Working Group. May 1992.
.sp
.LP
Rivest, R.
.IR "RFC 1321, The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" .
Network
Working Group. April 1992
.sp
.LP
Simpson, W.
.IR "RFC 1661, The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)" .
Network
Working Group. July 1994.
.sp
.LP
Simpson, W.
.I "RFC 1662, HDLC-like Framing"
\&. Network Working Group. July
1994.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
These signals affect
.B pppd
behavior:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGINT, SIGTERM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Terminate the link, restore the serial device settings and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGHUP
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Terminate the link, restore the serial device settings and close the serial
device. If the
.B persist
or
.B demand
option is specified, \fBpppd\fR
attempts to reopen the serial device and start another connection after the
holdoff period. Otherwise
.B pppd
exits. If received during the holdoff
period,
.B SIGHUP
causes
.B pppd
to end the holdoff period
immediately.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGUSR1
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggles the state of the
.B debug
option and prints link status
information to the log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGUSR2
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Causes
.B pppd
to renegotiate compression. This is useful to re-enable
compression after it has been disabled as a result of a fatal decompression
error. (Fatal decompression errors generally indicate a bug in an
implementation.)
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Messages are sent to the syslog daemon using facility
.BR LOG_DAEMON .
To
see error and debug messages, edit the
.B /etc/syslog.conf
file to direct
the messages to the desired output device or file, or use the \fBupdetach\fR
or
.B logfile
options.
.sp
.LP
The
.B debug
option causes the contents of all LCP, PAP, CHAP or IPCP
control packets sent or received to be logged. This is useful if PPP
negotiation does not succeed or if authentication fails.
.sp
.LP
Debugging can also be enabled or disabled by sending a
.BR SIGUSR1
signal, which acts as a toggle to the
.B pppd
process.
