'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH print-service 1M "18 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
print-service \- select, report, import, export active print service on a
system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprint-service\fR  [\fB-s\fR \fIservice\fR [\fB-m\fR] | \fB-q\fR | \fB-e\fR \fIfile\fR | \fB-i\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B print-service
utility manages print service selection, as well as
export and import of basic print queue configuration.
.sp
.LP
Only a user root privileges or with the Printer Management profile can
change the active print service or import print queue configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I service
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select the active print service for on a host.
.I service
can be one of
.B lp
or
.BR cups .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Migrate print queue configuration during print service selection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the active print service on a host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Export basic print queue configuration to a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Import basic print queue configuration from a file.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Selecting a Print Service
.sp
.LP
The following command selects the CUPS print service as the active print
service on a host.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBprint-service -s cups\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Reporting the Active Print Service
.sp
.LP
The following command reports the active print service on a host.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBprint-service -q\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Exporting a Print Queue Configuration
.sp
.LP
The following command exports the print queue configuration from the active
print service.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBprint-service -e /tmp/queues\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Importing a Print Queue Configuration
.sp
.LP
The following command imports the print queue configuration to the active
print service.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBprint-service -i /tmp/queues\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpcu
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR intro (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The print queue configuration saved and restored during export, import, and
migration is limited to queue name and device name. It is likely that
further configuration changes will be required before imported or migrated
print queues become usable.
