'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH projmod 1M "22 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
projmod \- modify a project's information on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprojmod\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-A\fR|\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR | -]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprojmod\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-A\fR|\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR | -] [\fB-p\fR \fIprojid\fR [\fB-o\fR]]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] [\fB-a\fR|\fB-s\fR|\fB-r\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR [,\fIuser\fR].\|.\|. ]
     [\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR [,\fIgroup\fR].\|.\|. ]
     [ [\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR [=\fIvalue\fR [,\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.].\|.\|.]]
     [\fB-l\fR \fInew_projectname\fR] \fIproject\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B projmod
utility modifies a project's definition on the system.
.B projmod
changes the definition of the specified project and makes the
appropriate project-related system file and file system changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Apply the project's resource controls, as defined in the system's project
database, to the project if it is active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify that the users, groups, attributes, or attribute values specified
by the
.BR -U ,
.B -G
or
.B -K
options should be added to the
project, rather than replacing the existing member or attribute list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I comment
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify
.I comment
as a text string. Generally,
.I comment
contains a
short description of the project. This information is stored in the
project's
.B /etc/project
entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I filename
| -\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify the project file to modify or validate or specify input from stdin
for validation. As noted under OPERANDS, if you do not specify a project in
a
.B projmod
command line,
.B projmod
validates the argument to
.BR -f .
If you do not use this option, the system project file,
.BR /etc/project ,
is modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-G\fR
.I group
[,\fIgroup\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify a replacement list of member groups of the project. When used in
conjunction with the
.B -a
or
.B -r
options, this option specifies a
list of groups to be added or removed from the project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR[,\fIvalue\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify a replacement list of project attributes for the project. When used
in conjunction with the
.BR -a ,
.BR -r ,
or
.B -s
options, this option
specifies a list of attribute values to be added, removed, or replaced in
the project. Attributes must be delimited by semicolons
.RB ( ; ).
Multiple
.B -K
options can be specified to set, add, remove, or substitute values
on multiple keys, such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-K \fIkey1\fR=\fIvalue1\fR -K "\fIkey2\fR=(\fIvalue2a\fR),(\fIvalue2b\fR)"
.fi
.in -2

Resource control attributes use parentheses to specify values for a key.
Because many user shells interpret parentheses as special characters, it is
best to enclose an argument to
.B -K
that contains parentheses with
double quotes, as shown above and in EXAMPLES, below. See
.BR resource_controls (5)
for a description of the resource controls you
can specify for a project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I new_projectname
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify the new project name for the project. The
.I new_projectname
argument is a string consisting of characters from the set of alphabetic
characters, numeric characters, period (\fB\&.\fR), underline
.RB ( _ ),
and
hyphen
.RB ( - ).
The first character should be alphabetic. An error message
is written if these restrictions are not met. The project name must also be
unique within the project file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Syntax check. Check the format of the existing system project file and
modifications only. The contents of the existing project file, such as user
names, group names, and resources that are specified in the project
attributes are not checked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
This option allows the project ID specified by the
.B -p
option to be
non-unique within the project file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I projid
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify a new project
.B ID
for the project. It must be a non-negative
decimal integer less than
.B MAXUID
as defined in
.BR param.h .
This
value must be unique within the project file if the
.B -o
option is not
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify that the users, groups, attributes, or attribute values specified
by the
.BR -U ,
.B -G
or
.B -K
options should be removed from the
project, rather than replacing the existing member or attribute list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify that the list of attributes specified by the
.B -K
option should
have their values replaced. If the attributes do not exist, they are added
as if the a option was used. This option has no effect the
.B -U
or
.B -G
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-U\fR
.I user
[,\fIuser\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Specify a replacement list of member users of the project. When used in
conjunction with the
.B -a
or
.B -r
options, this option specifies a
list of users to be added or removed from the project.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I project
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An existing project name to be modified or displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I (none)
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If no operand is given, the project file is validated without modifying any
project.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B -K
Option for Addition of an Attribute
Value
.sp
.LP
Consider the following
.BR project (4)
entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
salesaudit:111:Auditing Project::sales,finance: \e
  process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny); \e
  task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The preceding would appear as one line in
.BR /etc/project .
For this and
the following examples, the focus is on the attributes field in the
.B project
entry. That is, the last field, the field following the last
semicolon.

.sp
.LP
The attributes field for the project
.B salesaudit
lists the following
resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following
.B projmod
command adds an action clause to the preceding
entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.with the resulting attributes field in the entry for
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Using the
.B -K
Option for the Substitution of an
Attribute Value
.sp
.LP
Assume an attributes field in a
.BR project (4)
entry for the project
.B salesaudit
that lists the following resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following
.B projmod
command substitutes the action clause specified
in the command for the action clauses in the preceding entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -s -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,500,signal=SIGSTOP)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.with the resulting attributes field in the entry for
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,500,signal=SIGSTOP)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 3
Using the
.B -K
Option for Removal of an Attribute
Value
.sp
.LP
Assume an attributes field in a
.BR project (4)
entry for a project
.B salesaudit
that lists the following resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following
.B projmod
command removes the first action clause from
the preceding entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -r -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.with the resulting attributes field in the entry for
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 4
Specifying Multiple Attribute Values
.sp
.LP
Suppose you want to achieve the following resource controls for the project
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)
process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following
.B projmod
command adds these resource controls for
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" \e
-K "process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.with the resulting attributes field in the entry for
.BR salesaudit :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny);process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In this example, note the effect of the use of the modifier and scaling
factor for the resource control
.BR process.max-file-size .
The
specification in
.BR projmod :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
"process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.becomes, in
.BR /etc/project :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
That is,
.B 50MB
is expanded to
.BR 52428800 .
The modifiers, such as
MB, and scaling factors you can use for resource controls are specified in
.BR resource_controls (5).

.LP
.B Example 5
Binding a Pool to a Project
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the
.B project.pool
attribute for the project
.BR sales .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K project.pool=salespool sales
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 6
Evaluating Input from
.BR stdin
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the
.B -f
option without a project name
operand to evaluate the contents of an NIS projects map.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ypcat project | projmod -f -
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
In case of an error,
.B projmod
prints an error message and exits with
one of the following values:
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The command syntax was invalid. A usage message for
.B projmod
is
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An invalid argument was provided to an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The
.I projid
given with the
.B -p
option is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 5
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The project files contain an error. See
.BR project (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 6
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The project to be modified, group, user, or resource does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 9
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The project is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Cannot update the
.B /etc/project
file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
System file containing group definitions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/project
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
System project file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
System password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/shadow
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
System file containing users' encrypted passwords and related information
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(5.5i) |cw(0i)
lw(5.5i) |lw(0i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR groupadd (1M),
.BR groupdel (1M),
.BR groupmod (1M),
.BR projadd (1M),
.BR projdel (1M),
.BR useradd (1M),
.BR userdel (1M),
.BR usermod (1M),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR project (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR resource_controls (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B projmod
utility modifies project definitions only in the local
.B /etc/project
file. If a network name service such as
.B NIS
or
.B LDAP
is being used to supplement the local files with additional
entries,
.B projmod
cannot change information supplied by the network
name service. However
.B projmod
verifies the uniqueness of project name
and project
.B ID
against the external name service.
