'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH prtdscp 1M "25 Apr 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
prtdscp \- display
.B "DSCP IP"
addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprtdscp\fR [\fB-v\fR ]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprtdscp\fR [\fB-v\fR ] \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprtdscp\fR [\fB-v\fR ] \fB-d\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprtdscp\fR [\fB-v\fR ] \fB-s\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B prtdscp
displays the
.B IP
addresses associated with a Domain to
Service Processor Communications Protocol (\fBDSCP\fR) link. If no arguments
are specified,
.B prtdscp
displays the
.B IP
addresses on both ends of
the
.B DSCP
link. The
.B IP
address of either the Service Processor or
domain side can be displayed separately by the use of the
.B -s
or
.B -d
options, respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Verbose mode. Print additional details about the program's internal
progress to
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Help. Print a brief synopsis of the program's usage and exit. All other
command line arguments are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display only the local domain's
.B IP
address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display only the remote Service Processor's
.B IP
address.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying both addresses
.sp
.LP
The following example displays both the local domain's
.B IP
address and
the remote
.BR SP 's
.B IP
address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# prtdscp\fR
Domain Address: 192.168.103.2
SP Address: 192.168.103.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying the local
.B IP
address
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the local domain's
.B IP
address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# prtdscp -d\fR
192.168.103.2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Displaying the remote
.B IP
address
.sp
.LP
The following example display the remote
.BR SP 's
.B IP
address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# prtdscp -s\fR
192.168.103.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdscpr.u, SUNWdscpu.u
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
