'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH prtpicl 1M "2 Jun 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
prtpicl \- print PICL tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/prtpicl\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIpicl_class\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B prtpicl
command prints the
.B PICL
tree maintained by the
.B PICL
daemon. The output of
.B prtpicl
includes the name and
.B PICL
class of the nodes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I picl_class
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Print only the nodes of the named
.B PICL
class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Print in verbose mode. In verbose mode,
.B prtpicl
prints a list of
properties and values for each node. Verbose mode is disabled by default.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpiclu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR picld (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
