'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH psrset 1M "25 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
psrset \- creation and management of processor sets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-a\fR [\fB-F\fR] \fIprocessor_set_id\fR \fIprocessor_id\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-b\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR \fIpid\fR [\fI/lwpid\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-F\fR] [\fIprocessor_id\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-d\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-e\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIargument(s)\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-f\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fIprocessor_set_id\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-n\fR \fIprocessor_set_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-p\fR [\fIprocessor_id\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR [\fB-q\fR] [\fIpid\fR [\fI/lwpid\fR]]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-Q\fR [\fIprocessor_set_id\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-r\fR [\fB-F\fR] \fIprocessor_id\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-u\fR \fIpid\fR [\fI/lwpid\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsrset\fR \fB-U\fR [\fIprocessor_set_id\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B psrset
utility controls the management of processor sets. Processor
sets allow the binding of processes or LWPs to groups of processors, rather
than just a single processor. Processors assigned to processor sets can run
only LWPs that have been bound to that processor set.
.sp
.LP
This command cannot be used to modify processor disposition when pools are
enabled. Use \fBpooladm\fR(1M) and \fBpoolcfg\fR(1M) to modify processor set
configuration through the resource pools facility.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Assign the specified processors to the specified processor set. With the
additional
.B -F
option, all LWPs bound to the specified processors will be
unbound prior to changing processor sets.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Bind all or a subset of the \fBLWP\fRs of the specified processes to the
specified processor set.
.sp
LWPs bound to a processor set are restricted to run only on the processors in
that set. Processes can only be bound to non-empty processor sets, that is,
processor sets that have had processors assigned to them.
.sp
Bindings are inherited, so new LWPs and processes created by a bound LWP have
the same binding. Binding an interactive shell to a processor, for example,
binds all commands executed by the shell.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Create a new processor set and displays the new processor set
.BR ID .
With
the additional
.B -F
option, all LWPs bound to the specified processors
will be unbound prior to assigning them to the processor set being created.
.sp
If a list of processors is given, it also attempts to assign those processors
to the processor set. If this succeeds, the processors are idle until
\fBLWP\fRs are bound to the processor set. This option is restricted to users
with the
.B PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.sp
Only a limited number of processor sets can be active (created and not
destroyed) at a given time. This limit is always be greater than the number of
processors in the system. If the
.B -c
option is used when the maximum
number of processor sets is already active, the command fails.
.sp
The following format is used for the first line of output of the
.BR -c
option when the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR locale category specifies the "C" locale. In
other locales, the strings
.BR created ,
.BR processor ,
and
.B set
can
be replaced with more appropriate strings corresponding to the locale.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"created processor set %d\en" \fIprocessor set ID\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Remove the specified processor set, releasing all processors and processes
associated with it.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Execute a command (with optional arguments) in the specified processor set.
.sp
The command process and any child processes are executed only by processors
in the processor set.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Disables interrupts for all processors within the specified processor set.
See
.BR psradm (1M).
.sp
If some processors in the set cannot have their interrupts disabled, the
other processors still have their interrupts disabled, and the command reports
an error and return non-zero exit status.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Forces the specified processor set operation by unbinding all threads bound
to the specified processor. Only the
.B -a
or the
.B -r
option can be
used in combination with this option. Administrators are encouraged to use the
.B -Q
option for \fBpbind\fR(1M) to find out which threads will be affected
by such operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display a list of processors assigned to each named processor set. If no
argument is given, a list of all processor sets and the processors assigned to
them is displayed. This is also the default operation if the \fBpsrset\fR
command is not given an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Enable interrupts for all processors within the specified processor set. See
.BR psradm (1M).
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the processor set assignments for the specified list of processors.
If no argument is given, the processor set assignments for all processors in
the system is given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the processor set bindings of the specified processes or of all
processes. If a process is composed of multiple \fBLWP\fRs which have
different bindings and the LWPs are not explicitly specified, the bindings of
only one of the bound \fBLWP\fRs is displayed. The bindings of a subset of
LWPs can be displayed by appending "/lwpids" to the process \fBID\fRs.
Multiple LWPs may be selected using "-" and "," delimiters. See EXAMPLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the LWPs bound to the specified list of processor sets, or all LWPs
with processor set bindings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Remove a list of processors from their current processor sets. Processors
that are removed return to the general pool of processors.
.sp
Processors with
.BR LWP "s bound to them using"
.BR pbind (1M)
can be
assigned to or removed from processor sets using the
.B -F
option.
.sp
This option is restricted to users with the
.BR PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Remove the processor set bindings of a subset or all the \fBLWP\fRs of the
specified processes, allowing them to be executed on any on-line processor if
they are not bound to individual processors through
.BR pbind .
.sp
Users with the
.B PRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG
privilege can unbind any process or
LWP from any active processor set. Other users can unbind processes and LWPs
from processor sets that do not have the
.B PSET_NOESCAPE
attribute set. In
addition, the user must have permission to control the affected processes; the
real or effective user ID of the user must match the real or saved user ID of
the target processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Removes the bindings of all LWPs bound to the specified list of processor
sets, or to any processor set if no argument is specified.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pid
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify
.I pid
as a process
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lwpid
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The set of LWP\fBID\fRs of the specified process to be controlled or queried.
The syntax for selecting LWP \fBID\fRs is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2,3,4-8       LWP IDs 2, 3, and 4 through 8
-4            LWPs whose IDs are 4 or below
4-            LWPs whose IDs are 4 or above
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I processor_id
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify
.I processor_id
as an individual processor number (for example,
.BR 3 ),
multiple processor numbers separated by spaces (for example, \fB1 2
3\fR), or a range of processor numbers (for example,
.BR 1-4 ).
It is also
possible to combine ranges and (individual or multiple) \fIprocessor_id\fRs
(for example,
.BR "1-3 5 7-8 9" ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I processor_set_id
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify
.I processor_set_id
as a processor set
.BR ID .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Stability LevelStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pbind (1M),
.BR pooladm (1M),
.BR poolcfg (1M),
.BR psradm (1M),
.BR psrinfo (1M),
.BR processor_bind (2),
.BR processor_info (2),
.BR pset_bind (2),
.BR pset_create (2),
.BR pset_info (2),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR libpool (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the specified process did not exist or
has exited:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot query pid 31: No such process
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the user does not have permission to bind
the process:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot bind pid 31: Not owner
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the user does not have permission to
assign the processor:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot assign processor 4: Not owner
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the specified processor is not on-line,
or the specified processor does not exist.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot assign processor 8: Invalid argument
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that an
.B LWP
in the specified process is
bound to a processor and cannot be bound to a processor set that does not
include that processor:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot bind pid 67: Device busy
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the specified processor could not be
added to the processor set. This can be due to bound \fBLWP\fRs on that
processor, or because that processor cannot be combined in the same processor
set with other processors in that set, or because the processor is the last
one in its current processor set:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot assign processor 7: Device busy
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the specified processor set does not
exist:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot execute in processor set 8: Invalid argument
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the maximum number of processor sets
allowed in the system is already active:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot create processor set: Not enough space
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following output indicates that the pools facility is active.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
psrset: cannot assign processor 7: Operation not supported
psrset: cannot bind pid 31: Operation not supported
psrset: cannot bind pid 31: Operation not supported
psrset: could not create processor set: Operation not supported
psrset: could not remove processor set 1: Operation not supported
psrset: cannot exec in processor set 1: Operation not supported
psrset: cannot remove processor 7: Operation not supported
psrset: cannot unbind pid 31: Operation not supported
.fi
.in -2
.sp

