'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH quotaon 1M "16 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
quotaon, quotaoff \- turn ufs file system quotas on and off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBquotaon\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fIfilesystem\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBquotaon\fR \fB-a\fR [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBquotaoff\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fIfilesystem\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBquotaoff\fR \fB-a\fR [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBquotaon\fR turns on disk quotas for one or more ufs file systems.
.sp
.LP
Before a file system may have quotas enabled, a file named
.BR quotas ,
owned by root, must exist in the root directory of the file system. See
.BR edquota (1M)
for details on how to modify the contents of this file.
.sp
.LP
\fBquotaoff\fR turns off disk quotas for one or more ufs file systems.
.sp
.LP
The file systems specified must already be mounted.
.sp
.LP
These commands update the
.B mntopts
field of the appropriate entries in
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR to indicate when quotas are on or off for each file
system. If quotas are on, the string
.B quota
will be added to
.BR mntopts ;
if quotas are off, the
.B quota
string is not present.
.sp
.LP
\fIfilesystem\fR must be either the mount point of a file system, or the
block device on which the file system resides.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "quotaon"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
This option is normally used at boot time to enable quotas. It applies only
to those file systems in \fB/etc/vfstab\fR which have ``rq'' in the
\fBmntopts\fR field, are currently mounted ``rw'', and have a \fBquotas\fR
file in the root directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display a message for each file system after quotas are turned on.
.RE

.SS "quotaoff"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force all file systems in
.B /etc/mnttab
to have their quotas
disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display a message for each file system affected.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR quotaon
and \fBquotaoff\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte
( 2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mnttab
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
mounted file systems
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
list of default parameters for each file system
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR edquota (1M),
.BR quota (1M),
.BR quotacheck (1M),
.BR repquota (1M),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR vfstab (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR quotactl (7I)
