'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH routeadm 1M "18 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
routeadm \- IP forwarding and routing configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrouteadm\fR  [\fB-p\fR  [\fIoption\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrouteadm\fR  [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIoption\fR .\|.\|.] [\fB-d\fR \fIoption\fR.\|.\|.]
 [\fB-r\fR \fIoption\fR.\|.\|.] [\fB-s\fR \fIvar\fR=\fIvalue\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrouteadm\fR  [\fB-l\fR \fIfmri\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrouteadm\fR  [\fB-m\fR \fIfmri\fR \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrouteadm\fR  [\fB-u\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B routeadm
command is used to administer system-wide configuration for
IP forwarding and routing. IP forwarding is the passing of IP packets from one
network to another; IP routing is the use of a routing protocol to determine
routes.
.sp
.LP
IP forwarding and routing functions are also represented as services within the
service management facility (SMF), and can be administered by means of
.BR svcadm (1M)
also, using the following fault management resource identifiers
(FMRIs):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/ipv4-forwarding:default
svc:/network/ipv6-forwarding:default
svc:/network/routing/route:default
svc:/network/routing/ripng:default
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See EXAMPLES for relevant examples.
.sp
.LP
In addition to enabling and disabling routing and forwarding,
.B routeadm
is
used to interact with SMF-based routing daemon services. Routing daemon
services
are identified by the presence of a
.B routeadm
application property group,
which
.B routeadm
uses in administering the given service. Routing daemon
services can also specify properties relating to their operation in the
.B routing
application property group; these can be modified by means of
routeadm -m. If an FMRI for a service without such a property group is
specified, an error is issued and the operation is not carried out. If a
routing
daemon has not been converted to SMF, the
.BR "ipv4\fI[or 6]\fR-routing-daemon" ,
.BI ipv4 "[or 6]"\c
-routing-daemon-args,
and
\fBipv4\fI[or 6]\fR-routing-stop-cmd variables can be used to specify the appropriate
daemon for IPv4 or IPv6 routing.
.B routeadm
will then run that daemon using
the
.BI svc:/network/routing/legacy-routing:ipv4 "[or 6]"
service as
appropriate. This conversion process occurs when you issue an enable
.RB ( -e ),
.RB "disable (" -d ") or an update (" -u )
command.
.sp
.LP
The first usage, in the SYNOPSIS above, reports the current configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following command-line options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR [\fIoption\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the configuration in parseable format. If
.I option
is specified, only
the configuration for the specified option or variable is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I root-dir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate root directory where
.B routeadm
applies changes. This
can be useful from within JumpStart scripts, where the root directory of the
system being modified is mounted elsewhere.
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with the
.B -R
option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system, might
compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the non-global
zone's file system. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fIoption\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable the specified option. The effect is to prepare the associated services
(\fBsvc:/network/ipv4-forwarding:default\fR in the case of
.BR ipv4-forwarding )
for enabling. By means of the
.B routing-svcs
variable, the routing daemons are specified to be enabled on subsequent boot or
when
.B "routeadm -u"
is run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIoption\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the specified option. The effect is to prepare the associated services
(\fBsvc:/network/ipv4-forwarding:default\fR in the case of
.BR ipv4-forwarding )
for enabling. By means of the
.B routing-svcs
variable, the routing daemons are specified to be disabled on subsequent boot
or
when
.B "routeadm -u"
is run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I fmri
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all properties in the routing application property group for the SMF
routing daemon service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-m\fR \fIfmri\fR\ \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change property value of property
.I key
to
.I value
in routing
application property group for the SMF routing daemon service. For multi-valued
properties, the  property name can be used multiple times in the modify
operation, and each associated value will be added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
\fIoption.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Revert the specified option to the system default. The system defaults are
specified in the description of each
.IR option .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the currently configured options to the running system. These options
might include enabling or disabling IP forwarding and launching or killing
routing daemons, if any are specified. It does not alter the state of the
system
for those settings that have been set to default. This option is meant to be
used by administrators who do not want to reboot to apply their changes. In
addition, this option upgrades non-SMF configurations from the invocations of
daemon stop commands, which might include a set of arguments, to a simple
enabling of the appropriate service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify string values for specific variables in a comma-separated list with no
intervening spaces. If invalid options are specified, a warning message is
displayed and the program exits. The following variables can be specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI routing-svcs= fmrilist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the routing daemon services to be enabled. Routing daemon services
are determined to be IPv4 or IPv6 (and so enabled or disabled when
\fBrouteadm -e\fR/\fB-d\fR \fBipv4\fI(6)\fB-routing\fR is run) on
the basis of property values in the
.B routeadm
application property group.
Default:
.B "route:default ripng:default"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv4-routing-daemon= <full_path_to_routing_daemon>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the routing daemon to be started when
.B ipv4-routing
is enabled.
The routing daemon specified must be an executable binary or shell-script. If
the specified program maps to an SMF service, the service will be used, and
daemon arguments to the program will be transferred to the properties of the
service at enable time. Default: \fB""\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv4-routing-daemon-args= <args>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the startup arguments to be passed to the
.BR ipv4-routing-daemon
when
.B ipv4-routing
is enabled. Default: no arguments
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv4-routing-stop-cmd= <command>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the command to be executed to stop the routing daemon when
.B ipv4-routing
is disabled.
.I <command>
can be an executable binary or
shell-script, or a string that can be parsed by
.BR system (3C).
Default:
\fB""\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv6-routing-daemon= <full_path_to_routing_daemon>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the routing daemon to be started when
.B ipv6-routing
is enabled.
The routing daemon specified must be an executable binary or shell-script. If
the specified program maps to an SMF service, the service will be used, and
daemon arguments to the program will be transferred to the properties of the
service at enable time. Default: \fB""\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv6-routing-daemon-args= <args>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the startup arguments to be passed to the
.BR ipv6-routing-daemon
when \fBipv6-routing\fR is enabled. Default: \fB""\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ipv6-routing-stop-cmd= <command>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the command to be executed to stop the routing daemon when
.B ipv6-routing
is disabled.
.I <command>
can be an executable binary or
shell-script, or a string that can be parsed by
.BR system (3C).
Default:
\fB""\fR
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
Multiple
.BR -e ,
.BR -d ,
and
.B -r
options can be specified on the
command line. Changes made by
.BR -e ,
.BR -d ,
and
.B -r
are persistent,
but are not applied to the running system unless
.B routeadm
is called later
with the
.B -u
option.
.sp
.LP
Use the following options as arguments to the
.BR -e ,
.BR -d ,
and
.BR -r
options (shown above as
.IR option.\|.\|. ).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv4-forwarding
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls the global forwarding configuration for all IPv4 interfaces. The
system default is
.BR disabled .
If enabled, IP will forward IPv4 packets to
and from interfaces when appropriate. If disabled, IP will not forward IPv4
packets to and from interfaces when appropriate. The SMF service associated
with
this configuration variable is
.BR svc:/network/routing/ipv4-forwarding .
This
service will be enabled or disabled as appropriate when
.B routeadm
is called
with the
.B u
option. As an alternative, you can use
.BR svcadm (1M).
Services that require
.B ipv4-forwarding
to be enabled should specify a
dependency on this service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv4-routing
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines whether an IPv4 routing daemon is run. The system default is
.B enabled
unless the
.B /etc/defaultrouter
file exists (see
.BR defaultrouter (4)),
in which case the default is
.BR disabled .
The value
of this option reflects the state of all IPv4 routing services, such that if
any
IPv4 routing service is enabled,
.B ipv4-routing
is enabled. This allows
users to interact with routing services using
.BR svcadm "(1M), as well as"
through
.BR routeadm .
IPv4 routing services, specified by means of the
.B routing-svcs
variable, will be prepared for enable on next boot when the
user explicitly enables
.BR ipv4-routing .
The SMF routing daemon service for
.B in.routed
.RB ( svc:/network/routing/route:default )
is specified by
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6-forwarding
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls the global forwarding configuration for all IPv6 interfaces. The
system default is
.BR disabled .
If enabled, IP will forward IPv6 packets to
and from interfaces when appropriate. If disabled, IP will not forward IPv6
packets to and from interfaces when appropriate. The SMF service associated
with
this configuration variable is
.BR svc:/network/routing/ipv6-forwarding .
This
service will be enabled or disabled as appropriate when
.B routeadm
is called
with the
.B -u
option, or
.BR svcadm (1M)
is used. Services that require
.B ipv6-forwarding
to be enabled should specify a dependency on this
service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ipv6-routing
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines whether an IPv6 routing daemon is run. The system default is
.BR disabled .
The value of this option reflects the state of all IPv6 routing
services, such that, if any IPv6 routing service is enabled,
.B ipv6-routing
is enabled. This allows users to interact with routing services via
.BR svcadm (1M)
as well as through
.BR routeadm .
IPv6 routing services,
specified by means of the
.B routing-svcs
variable, will be prepared for
enable on next boot when the user explicitly enables
.BR ipv6-routing .
The SMF
routing daemon service for
.BR in.ripngd
.RB ( svc:/network/routing/ripng:default )
is specified by default.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The forwarding and routing settings are related but not mutually dependent. For
example, a router typically forwards IP packets and uses a routing protocol,
but
nothing would prevent an administrator from configuring a router that forwards
packets and does not use a routing protocol. In that case, the administrator
would enable forwarding, disable routing, and populate the router's routing
table with static routes.
.sp
.LP
The forwarding settings are global settings. Each interface also has an
.B IFF_ROUTER
forwarding flag that determines whether packets can be
forwarded to or from a particular interface. That flag can be independently
controlled by means of
.BR ifconfig (1M)'s
router option. When the global
forwarding setting is changed (that is,
.B -u
is issued to change the value
from
.B enabled
to
.B disabled
or vice-versa), all interface flags in the
system are changed simultaneously to reflect the new global policy. Interfaces
configured by means of DHCP automatically have their interface-specific
.B IFF_ROUTER
flag cleared.
.sp
.LP
When a new interface is plumbed by means of
.BR ifconfig ,
the value of the
interface-specific forwarding flag is set according to the current global
forwarding value. Thus, the forwarding value forms the "default" for all new
interfaces.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Enabling IPv4 Forwarding
.sp
.LP
IPv4 forwarding is disabled by default. The following command enables IPv4
forwarding:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBrouteadm -e ipv4-forwarding\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Apply Configured Settings to the Running System
.sp
.LP
In the previous example, a system setting was changed, but will not take effect
until the next reboot unless a command such as the following is used:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBrouteadm -u\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
An alternative to the above two steps is to simply enable the equivalent SMF
service:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsvcadm enable svc:/network/ipv4-forwarding\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.or, using the abbreviated FMRI:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsvcadm enable ipv4-forwarding\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Making a Setting Revert to its Default
.sp
.LP
To make the setting changed in the first example revert to its default, enter
the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBrouteadm -r ipv4-forwarding\fR
example# \fBrouteadm -u\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Starting
.B in.routed
with the
.B -q
Flag
.sp
.LP
Setting the
.B -q
flag is represented in the SMF service by setting the
.B quiet_mode
property to true. The following sequence of commands starts
.B in.routed
with the
.B -q
flag:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBrouteadm -m route:default quiet_mode=true\fR
example# \fBrouteadm -e ipv4-routing -u\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See
.BR in.routed (1M)
for details of property names and how they relate to
daemon behavior.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !=0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred while obtaining or modifying the system configuration.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/inet/routing.conf
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Parameters for IP forwarding and routing. (Not to be edited.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ifconfig (1M),
.BR in.routed (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR gateways (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
