'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc.rusersd 1M "4 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.rusersd, rusersd \- network username server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/rusers/rpc.rusersd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc.rusersd
is a server that returns a list of users on the host. The
.B rpc.rusersd
daemon may be started by
.BR inetd "(1M) or"
.BR listen (1M).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmds
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR inetadm (1M),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR listen (1M),
.BR pmadm (1M),
.BR sacadm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B rpc.rusersd
service is managed by the service management
facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/rusers:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Responsibility
for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to
.BR inetd (1M).
Use
.BR inetadm (1M)
to make configuration changes and to view
configuration information for this service. The service's status can be
queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
