'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc.ypupdated 1M "20 Mar 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.ypupdated, ypupdated \- server for changing NIS information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/yp/rpc.ypupdated\fR [\fB-is\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ypupdated
is a daemon that updates information in the Network
Information Service (NIS).
.B ypupdated
consults the
.BR updaters (4)
file in the
.B /var/yp
directory to determine which
.B NIS
maps
should be updated and how to change them.
.sp
.LP
By default, the daemon requires the most secure method of authentication
available to it, either
.B DES
(secure) or
.B UNIX
(insecure).
.sp
.LP
On start up,
.B ypupdated
checks for the existence of a NIS to LDAP
(N2L) configuration file,
.BR /var/yp/NISLDAPmapping .
If the file is
present,
.B ypupdated
generates an informational message and exits.
.B ypupdated
is not supported in N2L mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Accept
.B RPC
calls with the insecure
.B AUTH_UNIX
credentials. This
allows programmatic updating of the
.B NIS
maps in all networks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Accept only calls authenticated using the secure
.B RPC
mechanism
(\fBAUTH_DES\fR authentication). This disables programmatic updating of the
.B NIS
maps unless the network supports these calls.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/yp/updaters
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Configuration file for
.B rpc.updated
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/yp/NISLDAPmapping
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Configuration file for N2L
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availability SUNWypu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR keyserv (1M),
.BR updaters (4),
.BR NISLDAPmapping (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Network Information Service (\fBNIS\fR) was formerly known as Sun
Yellow Pages
.RB ( YP ).
The functionality of the two services remains the
same. Only the name has changed. The name Yellow Pages is a registered
trademark in the United Kingdom of British Telecommunications PLC, and it
must not be used without permission.
