'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rtquery 1M "24 Apr 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rtquery \- query routing daemons for their routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrtquery\fR [\fB-np1\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fItimeout\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIaddr\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIsecret\fR] \fIhost\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrtquery\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIoperation\fR] \fIhost\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rtquery
command is used to query a RIP network routing daemon,
.BR in.routed (1M)
or
.BR GateD ,
for its routing table by sending a
request or poll command. The routing information in any routing response
packets returned is displayed numerically and symbolically.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B rtquery
uses the request command. When the -p option is
specified,
.B rtquery
uses the poll command, an undocumented extension to
the RIP protocol supported by
.BR GateD .
When querying
.BR GateD ,
the
poll command is preferred over the request command because the response is
not subject to Split Horizon and/or Poisoned Reverse, and because some
versions of
.B GateD
.RB "do not answer the request command." " in.routed"
does not answer the poll command, but recognizes requests coming from
.B rtquery
and so answers completely.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rtquery
command is also used to turn tracing on or off in
.BR in.routed .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fBpasswd=\fIXXX\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-a\fR \fBmd5_passwd=\fIXXX\fR|\fIKeyID\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Causes the query to be sent with the indicated cleartext or MD5 password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Displays only the numeric network and host addresses instead of both
numeric and symbolic names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Uses the poll command to request full routing information from
.BR GateD .
This is an undocumented extension RIP protocol supported only by
.BR GateD .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I addr
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Asks about the route to destination
.IR addr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I operation
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Changes tracing, where
.I operation
is one of the actions listed below.
Requests from processes not running with UID 0 or on distant networks are
generally ignored by the daemon except for a message in the system log.
.B GateD
is likely to ignore these debugging requests.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBon=\fItracefile\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Turns tracing on, directing tracing into the specified file. That file must
have been specified when the daemon was started or have the name,
.BR /var/log/in.routed.trace .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B more
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Increases the debugging level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B off
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Turns off tracing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dump
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Dumps the daemon's routing table to the current trace file.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I timeout
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Changes the delay for an answer from each host. By default, each host is
given 15 seconds to respond.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Queries using RIP version 1 instead of RIP version 2.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWroute
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR in.routed (1M),
.BR route (1M),
.BR gateways (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR icmp (7P),
.BR inet (7P),
.BR udp (7P)
.sp
.LP
.I "Routing Information Protocol, RIPv1, RFC 1058
.sp
.LP
.I "Routing Information Protocol, RIPv2, RFC 2453, STD 0056
