'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rwall 1M "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rwall \- write to all users over a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fIhostname\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fB-n\fR \fInetgroup\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fB-h\fR \fIhostname\fR \fB-n\fR \fInetgroup\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rwall
reads a message from standard input until EOF. It then sends
this message, preceded by the line:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBBroadcast Message .\|.\|.\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
to all users logged in on the specified host machines. With the \fB-n\fR
option, it sends to the specified network groups.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " netgroup"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Send the broadcast message to the specified network groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -h " hostname"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify the
.BR hostname ,
the name of the host machine.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR listen (1M),
.BR pmadm (1M),
.BR sacadm (1M),
.BR wall (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The timeout is fairly short to allow transmission to a large group of
machines (some of which may be down) in a reasonable amount of time. Thus
the message may not get through to a heavily loaded machine.
