'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sdpadm 1M "22 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sdpadm \- SDP system configuration administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/sdpadm\fR  status | enable | disable
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sdpadm
command is used to display the system state of the Sockets
Direct Protocol (SDP) protocol. The
.B sdpadm
command can optionally be
used to set the state of the SDP protocol. See
.BR sdp (7D).
.sp
.LP
By default the SDP protocol is disabled on the system.  It can be enabled
by using
.BR "sdpadm enable" .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Displays the system status of the SDP protocol
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enable
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Enables the SDP protocol
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disable
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Disables the SDP protocol
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The required privileges to change the state of the SDP protocol are
controlled by the network configuration policy. If a user does not have the
correct privileges to set the SDP policy,
.B sdpadm
returns the current
state of SDP without having changed the state.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWibsdpu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR sdp (7D)
.sp
.LP
Infiniband Specification Volume 1 (\fBhttp://www.infinibandta.org\fR)
