'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sf880drd 1M "13 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sf880drd \- Sun Fire 880 Dynamic Reconfiguration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsf880drd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Sun Fire 880 Dynamic Reconfiguration daemon,
.BR sf880drd ,
is part of
the
.B PCI
and system bus hotplug framework.
.B sf880drd
starts at
boot time. It has no configuration options and does not report any system
status.
.sp
.LP
.B sf880drd
implements the Sun Fire
.B 880
console-less system
administration (per-slot pushbuttons and
.B LED
status indicators). It
also manages various aspects of
.BR CPU "/memory hotplug."
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/platform/SUNW,Sun-Fire-880/lib/sf880drd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsfdr.u
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR cfgadm (1M),
.BR cfgadm_pci (1M),
.BR cfgadm_sbd (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sf880drd
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/sf880drd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
