'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH soldelapp 1M "15 Sep 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
soldelapp \- remove an application from the Solstice application registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/snadm/bin/soldelapp\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIregistry\fR] \fB-n\fR \fIname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B soldelapp
removes an application from the Solstice application
registry. After removal, the application is no longer displayed in the
Solstice Launcher main window (see
.BR solstice (1M)).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-r " registry
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the full path name of the Solstice registry file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-n " name
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the name of the tool to be removed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When executed without options,
.B soldelapp
uses
.B /opt/SUNWadm/etc/.solstice_registry
(the default registry path).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
on success
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
on failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if the registry is locked
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if
.I name
is not found in the registry
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if the named registry or default registry is not found
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample display of the
.B soldelapp
command.
.sp
.LP
The following removes an application called Disk Manager from the Solstice
application registry and the Solstice Launcher main window.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB# soldelapp -r /opt/SUNWadm/etc/.solstice_registry -n "Disk Manager" \fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /opt/SUNWadm/etc/.solstice_registry
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default registry file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsadml
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR soladdapp (1M),
.BR solstice (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Globally registered applications are used by local and remote users sharing
the software in a particular
.B /opt
directory. They can be removed only
using
.BR soldelapp .
