'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sppptun 1M "27 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sppptun \- PPP tunneling driver utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsppptun plumb\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsppptun plumb\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsap\fR] \fIprotocol device\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsppptun unplumb\fR \fIinterface\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsppptun query\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sppptun
utility is used to configure and query the Solaris PPP
tunneling device driver,
.BR /dev/sppptun .
Currently, only PPP over
Ethernet (PPPoE) is supported, so the
.B plumb
and
.BR unplumb
arguments are used to specify Ethernet interfaces that are to be used for
PPPoE, and the
.B query
option lists the plumbed interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The use of
.B sppptun
to add interfaces is similar to the use of
.BR ifconfig (1M)
to add interfaces to IP. The plumbing is done once for
each interface, preferably at system start-up time, and is not normally
manipulated on a running system. If multiple instances of PPP are run over a
single interface, they share the plumbing to that interface. Plumbing for
each session is not required (and not possible for PPPoE).
.sp
.LP
The proper way to plumb interfaces for PPPoE is to list the interfaces, one
per line, in the
.B /etc/ppp/pppoe.if
file. If alternate Ethertype (SAP)
values are necessary, then include the PPPoE Session and Discovery Stage
values as hexadecimal on the same line. The line format is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIinterface\fR [\fIsession\fR [\fIdiscovery\fR]]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The defaults are the Ethertypes specified in RFC 2516, and most users
should not need to set these values. See the examples for one possible
use.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sppptun plumb
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When specified with no additional arguments, the plumb argument lists the
protocols that are supported by the utility. These are the strings that are
used as the
.I protocol
argument below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sppptun plumb [-s
\fIsap\fR] \fIprotocol\fR
.I device
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This plumbs a new interface into the driver. The
.I protocol
parameter
is \fBpppoe\fR for the PPP-carrying "Session Stage" connection or
\fBpppoed\fR for the PPPoE "Discovery Stage" connection. Both connections
must be present for each Ethernet interface that is to be used for PPPoE.
The
.I device
parameter is the path name of the Ethernet interface to use
(use \fBifconfig\fR(1M) to list available devices). If the path begins with
.BR /dev/ ,
then this portion may be omitted.
.sp
The
.B -s
.I sap
option can be specified to use an alternate
Ethertype (SAP) for the selected protocol. The
.I sap
value must be given
in hexadecimal. Some access servers use Ethertypes for PPPoE different from
those in RFC 2516. The defaults are 8864 for
.B pppoe
and 8863 for
.BR pppoed .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsppptun unplumb \fIinterface\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This removes an existing interface from the driver and terminates any PPP
sessions that were using the interface. The
.I interface
parameter is the
name of the interface as reported when the interface was plumbed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sppptun query
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the canonical names of all interfaces plumbed into the
.B /dev/sppptun
device driver.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Setting up to Use PPPoE on
.BR hme0
.sp
.LP
Plumb the
.B hme0
interface.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsppptun plumb pppoed hme0\fR
hme0:pppoed
# \fBsppptun plumb pppoe hme0\fR
hme0:pppoe
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Remove the
.B hme0
interface.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsppptun unplumb hme0:pppoed\fR
# \fBsppptun unplumb hme0:pppoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Script to Remove All Plumbed Interfaces
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#!/bin/sh
for intf in `sppptun query`
do
        sppptun unplumb $intf
done
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Interoperating with 3COM HomeConnect Dual Link ADSL
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link\fR
LINK        CLASS    MTU    STATE    OVER
nge0        phys     1500   up       --
# \fBecho nge0 3c13 3c12 > /etc/ppp/pppoe.if\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
One or more errors occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ppp/pppoe.if
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
list of Ethernet interfaces to be plumbed at boot time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/sbin/sppptun
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
executable command
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/sppptun
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Solaris PPP tunneling device driver
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpppdt
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pppd (1M),
.BR pppoec (1M),
.BR pppoed (1M),
.BR sppptun (7M)
.sp
.LP
.IR "RFC 2516, Method for Transmitting PPP Over Ethernet (PPPoE)" ,
Mamakos
et al, February 1999
