'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ssh-keysign 1M "9 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-keysign \- ssh helper program for host-based authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-keysign\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keysign
is used by
.BR ssh (1)
to access the local host keys and
generate the digital signature required during host-based authentication
with SSH protocol version 2. This signature is of data that includes, among
other items, the name of the client host and the name of the client user.
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keysign
is disabled by default and can be enabled only in the
global client configuration file
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_config
by setting
.B HostbasedAuthentication
to
.BR yes .
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keysign
is not intended to be invoked by the user, but from
.BR ssh .
See
.BR ssh (1)
and \fBsshd\fR(1M) for more information about
host-based authentication.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_config
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Controls whether
.B ssh-keysign
is enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key
.ad
.br
.na
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
These files contain the private parts of the host keys used to generate the
digital signature. They should be owned by root, readable only by root, and
not accessible to others. Because they are readable only by root,
.B ssh-keysign
must be
.B set-uid
root if host-based authentication is
used.
.RE

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
ssh-keysign will not sign host-based authentication data under the
following conditions:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the
.B HostbasedAuthentication
client configuration parameter is not
set to
.B yes
in
.BR /etc/ssh/ssh_config .
This setting cannot be
overriden in users'
.B ~/.ssh/ssh_config
files.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the client hostname and username in
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_config
do not
match the canonical hostname of the client where
.B ssh-keysign
is
invoked and the name of the user invoking
.BR ssh-keysign .
.RE
.sp
.LP
In spite of \fBssh-keysign\fR's restrictions on the contents of the
host-based authentication data, there remains the ability of users to use it
as an avenue for obtaining the client's private host keys. For this reason
host-based authentication is turned off by default.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR ssh_config (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
.RB "Markus Friedl," " markus@openbsd.org"
.SH HISTORY
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keysign
first appeared in Ox 3.2.
