'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfadm 1M "30 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
stmfadm \- SCSI target mode framework command line interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBadd-hg-member\fR \fB-g\fR, \fB--group-name\fR \fIgroup-name\fR \fIgroup-member\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBadd-tg-member\fR \fB-g\fR, \fB--group-name\fR \fIgroup-name\fR \fIgroup-member\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBadd-view\fR [\fB-n\fR, \fB--lun\fR \fIlogical-unit-number\fR
     \fB-t\fR, \fB--target-group\fR \fIgroup-name\fR \fB-h\fR, \fB--host-group\fR \fIgroup-name\fR] \fIlu-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBcreate-hg\fR \fIgroup-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBcreate-lu\fR [\fB-p\fR, \fB--lu-prop\fR \fIlogical-unit-property\fR=\fIval\fR
     \fB-s\fR, \fB--size\fR \fIsize\fR] \fIlu-file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBcreate-tg\fR \fIgroup-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBdelete-hg\fR \fIgroup-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBdelete-lu\fR \fIlu-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBdelete-tg\fR \fIgroup-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBimport-lu\fR \fIlu-file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-hg\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIhost-group-name\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-tg\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fItarget-group-name\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-lu\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIlu-name\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-target\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fItarget-name\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-view\fR \fB-l\fR, \fB--lu-name\fR \fIlu-name\fR [\fIentry-name\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBlist-state\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBmodify-lu\fR [\fB-p\fR, \fB--lu-prop\fR \fIlogical-unit-property\fR=\fIval\fR
     \fB-s\fR, \fB--size\fR \fIsize\fR, \fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR] \fIlu-name\fR|\fIlu-file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBonline-lu\fR \fIlu-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBoffline-lu\fR \fIlu-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBonline-lu\fR \fItarget-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBoffline-lu\fR \fItarget-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBremove-hg-member\fR \fB-g\fR, \fB--group-name\fR \fIgroup-name\fR \fIgroup-member\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBremove-tg-member\fR \fB-g\fR, \fB--group-name\fR \fIgroup-name\fR \fIgroup-member\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstmfadm\fR \fBremove-view\fR \fB-l\fR, \fB--lu-name\fR \fIlu-name\fR \fIentry-name\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfadm
command configures logical units within the SCSI Target
Mode Framework (STMF) framework. The framework and this man page use the
following terminology:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B initiator
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device responsible for issuing SCSI I/O commands to a SCSI target and
logical unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B target
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device responsible for receiving SCSI I/O commands for a logical unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logical unit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device within a target responsible for executing SCSI I/O commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logical unit number
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The identifier of a logical unit within a target.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B initiator group
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An initiator group is a set of one or more initiators that are combined for
the purposes of being applied to a
.B view
(see below). An initiator
cannot be a member of more than one initiator group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B target group
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A target group is a set of one or more SCSI target ports that are treated
the same when creating a
.B view
(see below). The set of logical units
that a particular SCSI initiator can see is determined by the combined set
of views.
.sp
Each logical unit has a set of view entries, and each view entry specifies
a target group, host group, and a LUN. An initiator from that host group,
when connecting through that target group, is able to identify and connect
to that logical unit using the specified LUN. You can use views to restrict
the set of logical units that a specific initiator can see, and assign the
set of LUNs that will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B view
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A view defines the association of an initiator group, a target group, and a
logical unit number with a specified logical unit. Any view entry added to a
logical unit must not be in conflict with existing view entries for that
logical unit. A view entry is considered to be in conflict when an attempt
is made to duplicate the association of any given initiator, target and
logical unit number. As an example, logical unit
.B LU_0
has the
following view entry associated with it:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Logical Unit: LU_0
			View Entry: 0	
				initiator group: HostA
				target group: All targets
				logical unit number: 32
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If you attempted the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmf add-view -n 31 -h HostA LU_0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.the operation would return an error with a message indicating that the
view entry is in conflict with one or more existing view entries. This
conflict arises because the existing view entry,
.BR 0 ,
already has mapped
.B LU_0
to logical unit number 32 for the initiator group
.BR HostA .
.RE

.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfadm
command supports the subcommands listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B add-view
[\fB-n\fR, \fB--lun\fR \fIlogical-unit-number\fR
.BR -t ,
.B --target-group
.I group-name
.BR -h ,
.B --host-group
\fIgroup-name\fR] \fIlu-name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a logical unit view entry to a logical unit
.IR lu-name ,
where
.I lu-name
is the STMF name for the logical unit as displayed by the
.B list-lu
subcommand. The
.B add-view
subcommand provides the user
with a mechanism to implement access control for a logical unit and also
provides a means of assigning a logical unit number to a logical unit for a
given set of initiators and targets. A logical unit will not be available to
any initiators until at least one view is applied. Each view entry gets
assigned an entry name, which can be used to reference the entry in the
.B remove-view
and
.B list-view
subcommands.
.sp
.B add-view
supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -n ,
.B --lun
.I logical-unit-number
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I logical-unit-number
is an integer in the range 0-16383 to be assigned
to the logical unit for this view entry. If this option is not specified, a
logical unit number will be assigned by the STMF framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -t ,
.B --target-group
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I group-name
is the name of a target group previously created using the
STMF
.B create-tg
subcommand. If this option is not specified, the
logical unit will be available through all targets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B -host-group
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I group-name
is the name of an host group previously created using the
STMF
.B create-hg
subcommand. If this option is not specified, the
logical unit will be available to all initiators that log in to the STMF
framework.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B add-hg-member -g
.IR "group-name group member" .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a host group member to a host group.
.I group-name
must be an
existing group created using the
.B create-hg
subcommand. \fIgroup
member\fR can be specified as \fIname_type\fR.\fIname_value\fR, where
.I name_type
can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
wwn
iqn
eui
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.and \fIname_value\fR is the value of the initiator name. As an
example, to add a fibre channel initiator port world-wide name
.B 200000e08b909221
to the host group
.BR HostA ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-hg-member -g HostA wwn.200000e08b909221\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To add an ISCSI initiator node member with the name
.B iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262
to
.BR HostA ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-hg-member -g HostA iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Alternatively, members can be specified using their SCSI name string
identifiers. To add the two initiators above using their SCSI name string
identifiers, the commands would be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-hg-member -g HostA eui.200000e08b909221\fR
# \fBstmfadm add-hg-member -g HostA iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

A host group member cannot be a member of more than one host group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B add-tg-member -g
.IR "group-name group member" .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a target group member to a target group.
.I group-name
must be an
existing group created using the
.B create-tg
subcommand. \fIgroup
member\fR can be specified as \fIname_type\fR.\fIname_value\fR, where
.I name_type
can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
wwn
iqn
eui
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.and \fIname_value\fR is the value of the target name. As an example,
to add a fibre channel target port world-wide name
.B 501000e092376af7
to
the target group
.BR TG0 ,
the command would be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-tg-member -g TG0 wwn.501000e092376af7\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To add an ISCSI target member with the name
.B iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110
to
.BR TG0 ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-tg-member -g TG0 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Alternatively, members can be specified using their SCSI name string
identifiers. To add the two targets above using their SCSI name string
identifiers, the commands would be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-tg-member -g TG0 eui.501000e092376af7\fR
# \fBstmfadm add-tg-member -g TG0 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

A target group member cannot be a member of more than one target group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create-hg
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an initiator group with the name
.IR group-name .
.I group-name
is a string of Unicode characters with a maximum length of 255. The group
name must be unique within the STMF system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create-lu
[\fB-p\fR, \fB--lu-prop\fR
\fIlogical-unit-property\fR=\fIval\fR \fB--s\fR, \fB--size\fR \fIsize\fR]
.I lu-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.RB "Create a logical unit that can be registered with STMF. For the" " -p"
option,
.I logical-unit-property
can be one of the following
properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B alias
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 255 characters, representing a user-defined name for the device. The
default is the name of the backing store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B blk
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the block size for the device. The default is 512.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B guid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Thirty-two hexadecimal ASCII characters representing a valid NAA Registered
Extended Identifier. The default is set by the STMF to a generated value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B meta
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Metadata file name. When specified, will be used to hold the SCSI metadata
for the logical unit. There is no default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mgmt-url
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 1024 characters representing a Management Network Address URL. More
than one URL can be passed as a single parameter by using space-delimited
URLs enclosed inside a single pair of quotation marks (\fB"\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B oui
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Organizational Unique Identifier. Six hexadecimal ASCII characters
representing the IEEE OUI company ID assignment. This will be used to
generate the device identifier (GUID). The default is
.BR 00144F .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sixteen characters of product identification SCSI SPC-3. This value will be
reflected in the Standard
.B INQUIRY
data returned for the device. The
default is
.BR COMSTAR .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B serial
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Serial Number. Specifies the SCSI Vital Product Data Serial Number (page
.BR 80h ).
It is a character value up to 252 bytes in length. There is no
default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Eight characters of vendor identification per SCSI SPC-3. This value will
be reflected in the Standard
.B INQUIRY
data returned for the device. The
default is
.BR SUN .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wcd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write-back cache disable. Specify
.B true
or \fBfalse\fRto determine
write-back cache disable behavior. The default is the write-back cache
setting of the backing store device specified by the \fIlu-file\fR
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write-protect bit. Specify
.B true
or
.B false
to determine whether
the device reports as write-protected. The default is
.BR false .
.RE

For the
.B -s
option,
.I size
is an integer followed by one of the
following letters, to indicate a unit of size:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B k
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
kilobyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
megabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B g
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
gigabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
terabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
petabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
exabyte
.RE

.I lu-file
is the file to be used as the backing store for the logical
unit. If the
.B -s
option is not specified, the size of the specified
.I lu-file
will be used as the size of the logical unit. Logical units
registered with the STMF require space for the metadata to be stored. When a
.B zvol
is specified as the backing store device, the default will be to
use a special property of the
.B zvol
to contain the metadata. For all
other devices, the default behavior will be to use the first 64k of the
device. An alternative approach would be to use the
.B meta
property in a
.B create-lu
command to specify an alternate file to contain the
metadata. It is advisable to use a file that can provide sufficient storage
of the logical unit metadata, preferably 64k.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create-tg
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a target group with the name
.IR group-name .
.I group-name
is a
string of Unicode characters with a maximum length of 255. The group name
must be unique within the STMF system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete-hg
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the host group that identified by
.IR group-name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete-lu
.I lu-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes an existing logical unit that was created using \fBstmfadm
create-lu\fR. This effectively unloads the logical unit from the STMF
framework. Any existing data on the logical unit remains intact.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete-tg
.I group-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the target group that identified by
.IR group-name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B import-lu
.I lu-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Imports and loads a logical unit into the STMF that was previously created
using
.B "stmfadm create-lu"
and was then deleted from the STMF using
.BR "stmfadm delete-lu" .
On success, the logical unit is again made
available to the STMF. \fIlu-file\fR is the filename used in the \fBstmfadm
create-lu\fR command. If this logical unit is using a separate metadata
file, the filename in the
.B meta
property value that was used in the
.B stmfadm create-lu
command must be used here.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist-hg\fR [\fB-v\fR,\fB--verbose\fR] [\fIhost-group-name\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information for the host group in the system referenced by
.IR host-group-name .
If
.I host-group-name
is not specified, all host
groups in the system will be listed. If the
.B --v
or
.BR --verbose
option is specified, all members within a host group are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist-lu\fR [\fB-v\fR,\fB--verbose\fR] [\fIlu-name\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information for the logical unit in the system referenced by
.IR lu-name .
If
.I lu-name
is not specified, all logical units in the
system will be listed. If the
.B -v
or
.B --verbose
option is
specified, additional information about the logical unit will be
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist-target\fR [\fB-v\fR,\fB--verbose\fR] [\fItarget-name\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information for the target port in the system referenced by
.IR target-name .
If target name is not specified, all target ports in the
system will be listed. If the
.B -v
or
.B --verbose
option is
specified, additional information about the target along with SCSI session
information for logged-in initiators is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist-tg\fR [\fB-v\fR,\fB--verbose\fR]
[\fItarget-group-name\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists information for the target group in the system referenced by
.IR target-group-name .
If
.I target-group-name
is not specified, all
target groups in the system will be listed. If the
.B --v
or
.B --verbose
option is specified, all members within a target group are
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "list-view --l" ,
.B --lu-name
.I lu-name
[\fIentry-name\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the view entry for the logical unit referenced by
.IR lu-name .
If
.I entry-name
is not specified, all view entries for the specified
logical unit will be listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B modify-lu
[\fB-p\fR, \fB--lu-prop\fR
\fIlogical-unit-property\fR=\fIval\fR \fB--s\fR, \fB--size\fR \fIsize\fR,
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR] \fIlu-name\fR|\fIlu-file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modifies attributes of a logical unit created using the \fBstmfadm
create-lu\fR command. For the \fB-p\fR option, \fIlogical-unit-property\fR
can be one of the following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B alias
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 255 characters, representing a user-defined name for the device. The
default is the name of the backing store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mgmt-url
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 1024 characters representing a Management Network Address URL. More
than one URL can be passed as a single parameter by using space-delimited
URLs enclosed inside a single pair of quotation marks (\fB"\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wcd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write-back cache disable. Specify
.B true
or \fBfalse\fRto determine
write-back cache disable behavior. The default is the write-back cache
setting of the backing store device specified by the \fIlu-file\fR
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write-protect bit. Specify
.B true
or
.B false
to determine whether
the device reports as write-protected. The default is
.BR false .
.RE

For the
.B -s
option,
.I size
is an integer followed by one of the
following letters, to indicate a unit of size:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B k
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
kilobyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
megabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B g
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
gigabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
terabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
petabyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
exabyte
.RE

.I lu-name
is the
.B guid
of the logical unit to be modified. If the
.B -f
option is specified, the operand is interpreted as a file name.
This provides the ability to modify a logical unit that is not currently
imported into the STMF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B online-lu
.I lu-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Online a logical unit currently registered with the STMF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B online-target
.I target-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Online the specified target.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B offline-lu
.I lu-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Offline a logical unit currently registered with the STMF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B offline-target
.I target-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Online the specified target.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list-state
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the operational and configuration state of the STMF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B remove-hg-member -g
.I group-name group member
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes a host group member from a host group.
.I group-name
must be an
existing group created using the
.B create-hg
subcommand. \fIgroup
member\fR can be specified as \fIname_type\fR.\fIname_value\fR, where
.I name_type
can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
wwn
iqn
eui
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.and \fIname_value\fR is the value of the initiator name. As an
example, to remove the fibre channel initiator port world-wide name
.B 200000e08b909221
from the host group
.BR HostA ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-hg-member -g HostA wwn.200000e08b909221\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To remove the ISCSI initiator node member with the name
.B iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262
from
.BR HostA ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-hg-member -g HostA iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Alternatively, members can be specified using their SCSI name string
identifiers. To remove the two initiators above using their SCSI name string
identifiers, the commands would be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-hg-member -g HostA eui.200000e08b909221\fR
# \fBstmfadm remove-hg-member -g HostA iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01.46f7e262\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B remove-tg-member -g
.I group-name group member
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes a target group member from a target group.
.I group-name
must be
an existing group created using the
.B create-tg
subcommand. \fIgroup
member\fR can be specified as \fIname_type\fR.\fIname_value\fR, where
.I name_type
can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
wwn
iqn
eui
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.and \fIname_value\fR is the value of the target name. As an example,
to remove the fibre channel target port world-wide name
.B 501000e092376af7
from the target group
.BR TG0 ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-tg-member -g TG0 wwn.501000e092376af7\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To remove the ISCSI target member with the name
.B iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110
from
.BR TG0 ,
the command would
be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-tg-member -g TG0 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Alternatively, members can be specified using their SCSI name string
identifiers. To remove the two targets above using their SCSI name string
identifiers, the commands would be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm remove-tg-member -g TG0 eui.501000e092376af7\fR
# \fBstmfadm remove-tg-member -g TG0 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:target.01.01110\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "remove-view --l" ,
.B --lu-name
.I lu-name
.I entry-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes one or more logical unit view entries from a logical unit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a Host group with Two Initiator Ports
.sp
.LP
The following commands use the
.B create-hg
and
.BR add-hg-member
subcommands to create a host group and add two initiator ports to that host
group.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm create-hg host-group-a\fR
# \fBstmfadm add-hg-member -g host-group-a wwn.210105b0000d92d0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Adding a View Entry to a Logical Unit
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the
.B add-view
subcommand to allow access
from
.B host-group-a
to a logical unit.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm add-view -h host-group-a 6000AE40C5000000000046FC4FEA001C\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Listing a View Entry
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the
.B list-view
subcommand to list all view
entries for the specified logical unit.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBstmfadm list-view -l 6000AE40C5000000000046FC4FEA001C\fR
View Entry: 0
    			Host group      : host-group-a
    			Target group   : All
    			LUN               : 0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWstmfu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sbdadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
