'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH svadm 1M "2 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
svadm \- command line interface to control Availability Suite Storage
Volume operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR \fB-v\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR [\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR [\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR] \fB-i\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR [\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR] \fB-e\fR {\fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR | volume}
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR [\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR] \fB-d\fR {\fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR | volume}
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvadm\fR [\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR] \fB-r\fR {\fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR | volume}
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B svadm
command controls the Storage Volume (SV) driver by
providing facilities to enable and disable the SV driver for specified
volumes, and to dynamically reconfigure the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
If you specify no arguments to an
.B svadm
command, the utility displays
the list of volumes currently under SV control.
.B svadm
supports the
following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I tag
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On a clustered node, limits operations to only those volumes belonging to
the cluster resource group, or disk group name, specified by tag. This
option is illegal on a system that is not clustered. The special
.IR tag ,
.BR local ,
can be used to limit operations to only those volumes that
cannot switch over to other nodes in the cluster.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the SV devices specified on the command line or in the
configuration file. If
.B -C
tag is specified with this option, then the
volume should be in this cluster disk group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the SV devices specified on the command line or in the
configuration file. Details of the volume are saved in the current
configuration. See \fBdscfg\fR(1M). If \fB-C\fR tag is specified with this
option, then the volume should be in this cluster disk group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I config_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a configuration file that contains a list of volumes. A command
reads this volume list and then perform the operation. The format of the
.I config_file
is a simple list of volume pathnames, one per line. Blank
lines and lines starting with the comment character (#) are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the
.B svadm
usage summary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays extended status for the volumes currently under SV control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a
.I config_file
is specified, reconfigure the running system to
match the configuration specified in the
.IR config_file .
When the
.B -C
option is specified, compare the cluster tag for each volume and
change it to
.IR cluster_tag .
If a volume is specified with this option,
it is valid only to reconfigure the cluster tag associated with the volume.
The
.B -e
or
.B -d
options should be used to enable or disable single
volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the SV version number.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
When an SV volume is enabled, normal system call access to the device (see
.BR intro (2))
is redirected into the StoreEdge architecture software. This
allows standard applications to use StorageTek features such as Sun
StorageTek Point-in-Time Copy and Remote Mirror Software.
.sp
.LP
The
.B svadm
command generates an entry in the Availability Suite log
file,
.B /var/adm/ds.log
(see
.BR ds.log (4)),
when performing enable
(\fB-e\fR) and disable (\fB-d\fR) operations.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWspsvr, SUNWspsvu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dscfg (1M),
.BR ds.log (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR sv (7D)
