'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH svcadm 1M "9 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
svcadm \- manipulate service instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] enable [\fB-rst\fR] {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] disable [\fB-st\fR] {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] restart {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] refresh {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] clear {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] mark [\fB-It\fR] \fIinstance_state\fR
     {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svcadm\fR [\fB-v\fR] milestone [\fB-d\fR] \fImilestone_FMRI\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B svcadm
issues requests for actions on services executing within the
service management facility (see
.BR smf (5)).
Actions for a service are
carried out by its assigned service restarter agent. The default service
restarter is
.B svc.startd
(see
.BR svc.startd (1M)).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print actions verbosely to standard output.
.RE

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "Common Operations"
.sp
.LP
The subcommands listed below are used during the typical administration of
a service instance.
.sp
.LP
For subcommands taking one or more operands, if the operand specifies a
service (instead of a service instance), and that service has only a single
instance,
.B svcadm
operates on that instance. If an abbreviated
.I FMRI
(a fault management resource identifier) or pattern matches more
than one service, a warning message is displayed and that operand is
ignored. See
.BR smf (5).
.sp
.LP
.RB "In the case that the service has more than one instance," " svcadm"
return a non-zero exit status.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enable [-rst]
.RI { FMRI " | " pattern }.
\&.
\&.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the service instances specified by the operands. For each service
instance, the assigned restarter will try to bring it to the online state.
This action requires permission to modify the "general" property group of
the service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.sp
If the
.B -r
option is specified,
.B svcadm
enables each service
instance and recursively enables its dependencies.
.sp
If the
.B -s
option is specified,
.B svcadm
enables each service
instance and then waits for each service instance to enter the
.BR online
or
.B degraded
state.
.B svcadm
will return early if it determines
that the service cannot reach these states without administrator
intervention.
.sp
If the
.B -t
option is specified,
.B svcadm
temporarily enables each
service instance. Temporary enable only lasts until reboot. This action
requires permission to modify the "restarter_actions" property group of the
service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
By default,
.B enable
is
persistent across reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disable
[\fB-st\fR] {\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}. . .\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the service instance specified by the operands. For each service
instance, the assigned restarter will try to bring it to the disabled state.
This action requires permission to modify the "general" property group of
the service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.sp
If the
.B -s
option is specified,
.B svcadm
disables each service
instance and then waits for each service instance to enter the disabled
state.
.B svcadm
will return early if it determines that the service
cannot reach this state without administrator intervention.
.sp
If the
.B -t
option is specified,
.B svcadm
temporarily disables each
service instance. Temporary disable only lasts until reboot. This action
requires permission to modify the "restarter_actions" property group of the
service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
By default,
.B disable
is
persistent across reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B restart
{\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}. . .\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests that the service instances specified by the operands be restarted.
This action requires permission to modify the "restarter_actions" property
group of the service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.sp
This subcommand can restart only those services that are in the online or
degraded states, as those states are defined in
.BR smf (5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refresh
{\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}. . .\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For each service instance specified by the operands, requests that the
assigned restarter update the service's running configuration snapshot with
the values from the current configuration. Some of these values take effect
immediately (for example, dependency changes). Other values do not take
effect until the next service
.BR restart .
See the restarter and service
documentation for more information.
.sp
If the service is managed by
.BR svc.startd (1M),
the \fBrefresh\fR method
will be invoked if it exists to request the service reread its own
configuration. For other restarters, see the restarter documentation.
.sp
This action requires permission to modify the "restarter_actions" property
group of the service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clear
{\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR}. . .\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For each service instance specified by the operands, if the instance is in
the
.B maintenance
state, signal to the assigned restarter that the
service has been repaired. If the instance is in the
.B degraded
state,
request that the assigned restarter take the service to the
.BR online
state. This action requires permission to modify the "restarter_actions"
property group of the service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.RE

.SS "Exceptional Operations"
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are used for service development and temporary
administrative manipulation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mark [-It]
.I instance_state
{\fIFMRI\fR |
.IR pattern }.
\&. .\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fIinstance_state\fR is "maintenance", then for each service specified
by the operands,
.B svcadm
requests that the assigned restarter place the
service in the
.B maintenance
state. See
.BR svc.startd (1M)
and
.BR inetd (1M)
for a detailed description of the actions taken for each
restarter.
.sp
If \fIinstance_state\fR is "degraded", then for services specified by the
operands in the online state,
.B svcadm
requests that the restarters
assigned to the services move them into the
.B degraded
state.
.sp
If the
.B -I
option is specified, the request is flagged as immediate.

.sp
The
.B -t
option is only valid for maintenance requests. When this
option is specified, the request is flagged as temporary, and its effect
will only last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B milestone
[\fB-d\fR] \fImilestone_FMRI\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fImilestone_FMRI\fR is the keyword "none", all services other than the
master restarter,
.BR svc:/system/svc/restarter:default ,
will be
temporarily disabled.
.sp
If \fImilestone_FMRI\fR is the keyword "all", temporary enable and disable
requests for all services will be nullified.
.sp
If
.I milestone_FMRI
is one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/milestone/single-user:default
svc:/milestone/multi-user:default
svc:/milestone/multi-user-server:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

then temporary enable and disable requests for the indicated service and
all services it depends on (directly or indirectly) will be nullified. All
other services will be temporarily disabled.
.sp
Changing the system's current milestone with the "milestone" subcommand
will not change the current run level of the system. To change the system's
run level, invoke
.B /sbin/init
directly.
.sp
This action requires permission to modify the "options_ovr" property group
of the
.B svc:/system/svc/restarter:default
service instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.sp
The
.B -d
option immediately changes the milestone to the requested
milestone, as above. Additionally, it makes the specified milestone the
default boot milestone, which persists across reboot. The default milestone
is defined by the
.B options/milestone
property on the master restarter,
\fBsvc:/system/svc/restarter:default\fR. If this property is absent, "all"
is the default. This action requires permission to modify the "options"
property group of the
.B svc:/system/svc/restarter:default
service
instance (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
.RE

.SS "Operands"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I FMRI
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An
.I FMRI
that specifies one or more instances.
.IR FMRI s
can be
abbreviated by specifying the instance name, or the trailing portion of the
service name. For example, given the
.IR FMRI :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

All the following are valid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sendmail
:sendmail
smtp
smtp:sendmail
network/smtp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

While the following are invalid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mail
network
network/smt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the
.I FMRI
specifies a service, then the command applies to all
instances of that service. Abbreviated forms of
.IR FMRI s
are unstable,
and should not be used in scripts or other permanent tools.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pattern
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pattern that is matched against the
.I FMRIs
of service instances
according to the "globbing" rules described by \fBfnmatch\fR(5). If the
pattern does not begin with "svc:", then "svc:/" is prepended.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If an abbreviated
.I FMRI
or pattern matches more than one service, a
warning message is displayed and that operand is ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Restarting a Service Instance
.sp
.LP
The following command restarts the
.B NFS
server. The full
.I FMRI
for the default service instance is:
.B svc:/network/nfs/server:default

.sp
.LP
However, you can abbreviate the full
.I FMRI
as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# svcadm restart nfs/server
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Disabling the Standard HTTP Server
.sp
.LP
The following command disables the standard HTTP server, using an
abbreviated
.IR FMRI :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ svcadm disable http
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Enabling an Instance and Its Dependent Instances
.sp
.LP
The following command enables the
.B foo:bar
instance, and all instances
on which it depends:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ svcadm enable -r foo:bar
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Synchronously enabling an instance
.sp
.LP
The following command enables the
.B foo:bar
instance. The command will
not return until the instance comes online or
.B svcadm
determines it is
not possible for the service to come online.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ svcadm enable -s foo:bar
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Restricting and Restoring the Running Services
.sp
.LP
The following command restricts the running services to single user mode:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# svcadm milestone milestone/single-user
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command restores the running services:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# svcadm milestone all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
A fatal error occurred. One or more error messages are displayed on
standard error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B svcadm
determined that a service instance that it was waiting for
could not reach the desired state without administrator intervention due to
a problem with the service instance itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B svcadm
determined that a service instance that it was waiting for
could not reach the desired state without administrator intervention due to
a problem with the service's dependencies.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The interactive output is Uncommitted. The invocation and non-interactive
output are Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcprop (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR init (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR contract (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_security (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The amount of time
.B svcadm
will spend waiting for services and their
dependencies to change state is implicitly limited by their method timeouts.
For example, a service using the default restarter whose start method hangs
will be transitioned to the maintenance state when its timeout expires.
.B svcadm
will then consider it impossible for this service to come
online without administrator intervention.
.sp
.LP
Attempts to synchronously enable a service which depends (directly or
indirectly) on a file may fail with an exit status indicating that
dependencies are unsatisfied if the caller does not have the privileges
necessary to search the directory containing the file. This limitation may
be removed in a future Solaris release.
