'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH svccfg 1M "29 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
svccfg \- import, export, and modify service configurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svccfg\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIFMRI\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svccfg\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIFMRI\fR] \fIsubcommand\fR [\fBargs\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/svccfg\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIFMRI\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIcommand-file\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B svccfg
command manipulates data in the service configuration
repository.
.B svccfg
can be invoked interactively, with an individual
subcommand, or by specifying a command file that contains a series of
subcommands.
.sp
.LP
Changes made to an existing service in the repository typically do not take
effect for that service until the next time the service instance is
refreshed. See the
.B refresh
subcommand on the
.BR svcadm (1M)
man page
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I command-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reads and executes
.B svccfg
subcommands from \fIcommand-file\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I FMRI
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Selects the entity indicated by
.I FMRI
(a fault management resource
identifier) before executing any subcommands. See
.BR smf (5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose.
.RE

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
Subcommands are divided into the categories specified in the subsections
that follow.
.sp
.LP
All subcommands that accept
.IR FMRI "s also accept abbreviated or globbed"
patterns. Instances and services can be abbreviated by specifying the
instance name, or the trailing portion of the service name. For example,
given the
.IR FMRI :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
All the following are valid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sendmail
:sendmail
smtp
smtp:sendmail
network/smtp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
While the following are invalid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mail
network
network/smt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Abbreviated forms of
.IR FMRI "s are unstable, and should not be used in"
scripts or other permanent tools. If a pattern matches more than one
instance or service, an error message is printed and no action is taken.
.SS "General Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B end
.ad
.br
.na
.B exit
.ad
.br
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exits immediately.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B repository
.I repfile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses
.I repfile
as a repository. By default, \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) uses the
system repository.
.sp
Use repository only with files from the identical version of Solaris,
including patches, that you are currently running. Do not use this
subcommand with the system repository,
.BR /etc/svc/repository.db .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBset\fR [\fB-v\fR|\fB-V\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets optional behavior. If no options are specified, set displays the
options currently in effect.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns on verbose mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off verbose mode.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Service Profile Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B apply
[\fB-n\fR] \fIfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a
.I file
is a service profile, properties, including
general/enabled, that are specified in the file are modified in the SMF
repository. Not-yet-existent properties and property groups will be created.
The type of the pre-existing property
.B groups
will not be changed by
the profile. Existing properties (as distinguished from property groups)
.B can
have their type changed by the profile. Nonexistent services and
instances are ignored. Services and instances modified by the profile will
be refreshed. If
.B -n
is specified, the profile is processed and no
changes are applied to the SMF repository. Any syntax error found will be
reported on stderr and an exit code of
.B 1
will be returned. See
.BR smf (5)
for a description of service profiles. This command requires
privileges to modify properties in the service and instance. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to modify properties. If
.I file
is not a service profile, the subcommand fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B extract
[\fI> file\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints a service profile which represents the enabled status of the service
instances in the repository to standard output. The output may be redirected
to a file.
.RE

.SS "Service Manifest Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBarchive\fR [\fB-a\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dumps a full
.B XML
service description for all services, instances, and
their persistent properties in the repository. This does not include
transient properties such as service state, and is suitable for a
relocatable repository backup.
.sp
Without the
.B -a
option, property groups containing protected
information (identified by the presence of the
.B read_authorization
property\(emsee
.BR smf_security (5))
will be archived without their
property values. When the
.B -a
option is specified, all values will be
archived. An error results if there are insufficient privileges to read
these values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBexport\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.I service_FMRI
[\fI>file\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The service description for the specified service and its instances is
written to standard output or redirected to the given file. Dependencies
with a boolean "external" property set to true are omitted in the belief
that they were created on behalf of another service.
.sp
Without the
.B -a
option, property groups containing protected
information (identified by the presence of the
.B read_authorization
property\(emsee
.BR smf_security (5))
will be exported without their
property values. When the
.B -a
option is specified, all values will be
archived. An error results if there are insufficient privileges to read
these values.
.sp
Note that
.B export
requires a service FMRI. If you specify an instance
(including an abbreviation, such as
.B apache2
or
.BR sendmail ,
that
specifies an instance), the command fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B import
[\fB-V\fR] \fIfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.I file
is a service manifest, then the services and instances it
specifies are imported into the repository. According to the file,
dependencies may be created in other services. See
.BR smf (5)
for a
description of service manifests. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the
privileges required to create and modify service configurations.
.sp
Services and instances in the manifest will be validated against template
data in the manifest and the repository, and warnings will be issued for all
template violations. See
.BR smf_template (5)
for a description of
templates. If the
.B -V
option is specified, manifests that violate the
defined templates will fail to import. In interactive invocations of
.BR svccfg ,
.B -V
is the default behavior.
.sp
For existing services and instances, properties which have not changed
since the last
.B import
snapshot was taken are upgraded to those
specified by the manifest. Conflicts (properties which have been changed
both in the repository and the manifest) are reported on the standard error
stream. \fBsvccfg\fR will never upgrade the "general/enabled" and
"general/restarter" properties, since they represent administrator
preference.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B inventory
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.I file
is determined to be a service manifest, then the \fBFMRI\fRs
of the services and instances the
.I file
describes are printed. For each
service, the
.BR FMRI s
of its instances are displayed before the
.B FMRI
of the service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B restore
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restores the contents of the repository from a full XML service description
previously created by the
.B archive
subcommand. If the archive was
generated without the use of the
.B -a
option, the contents of the
repository following completion of the restore will not include the values
of any read-protected properties (see
.BR smf_security (5)).
If these are
required, they must be restored manually.
.sp
Restoring an archive which is inconsistent with currently installed
software (including patch revisions) might yield unpredictable results.
Therefore, prior to restoring an archive, all system and application
software, including any service manifests, should be restored to the same
state it was in at the time the archive was made.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvalidate\fR [\fIfile\fR | \fIfmri\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B validate
subcommand can operate on a manifest file, an instance
FMRI, or the current instance or snapshot entity selection. When an argument
is specified,
.B svccfg
will check to see whether the specified file
exists. If the file exists, it will be validated. If a file of the specified
name does not exist, the argument is treated as an FMRI pattern. If a
conflict arises between a filename and an FMRI, use the
.B svc:
and
.B file:
prefixes to tell
.B svccfg
how to interpret the argument.
.sp
When you specify a file, the file is processed in a manner similar to
.BR "import -V" ,
but no changes are made to the repository. If any
errors are detected,
.B svccfg
displays the errors and exits with a
nonzero exit status.
.sp
For an instance
.IR fmri ,
instance entity selection, or snapshot entity
selection, the specified instance in its composed form (see "Properties and
Property Groups" in \fBsmf\fR(5)) will be validated against template data in
the repository. Instance FMRIs and instance entity selections use the
"running" snapshot for validation. Warnings will be issued for all template
violations. See
.BR smf_template (5)
for a description of templates.
.RE

.SS "Entity Selection, Modification, and Navigation Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
An "entity" refers to a scope, service, or service instance.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B add
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A new entity with the given name is created as a child of the current
selection. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to create
entities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdelete\fR [\fB-f\fR] \fB{\fIname\fR | \fIfmri\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The named child of the current selection or the entity specified by
\fIfmri\fR is deleted. Attempts to delete service instances in the "online"
or "degraded" state will fail unless the \fB-f\fR flag is specified. If a
service or service instance has a "dependents" property group of type
"framework", then for each of its properties with type "astring" or "fmri",
if the property has a single value which names a service or service instance
then the dependency property group in the indicated service or service
instance with the same name as the property will be deleted. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to delete service
configurations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist\fR [\fIpattern\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The child entities of the current selection whose names match the glob
pattern
.I pattern
are displayed (see
.BR fnmatch (5)).
\&':properties'
is also listed for property-bearing entities, namely services and service
instances.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBselect\fR {\fIname\fR | \fIfmri\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the argument names a child of the current selection, it becomes the
.RB "current selection. Otherwise, the argument is interpreted as an" " FMRI"
and the entity that the argument specifies becomes the current selection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unselect
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The parent of the current selection becomes the current selection.
.RE

.SS "Property Inspection and Modification Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaddpg\fR
.I name type
[\fIflags\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a property group with the given
.I name
and type to the current
selection.
.I flags
is a string of characters which designates the flags
with which to create the property group. 'P' represents
.B SCF_PG_FLAG_NONPERSISTENT
(see
.BR scf_service_add_pg (3SCF)).
See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to create property
groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaddpropvalue\fR \fIpg\fI/name\fR [\fItype:\fR] \fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds the given value to a property. If
.I type
is given and the property
exists, then if
.I type
does not agree with the property's
.IR type ,
the subcommand fails. The values may be enclosed in double-quotes. String
values containing double-quotes or backslashes must be enclosed by
double-quotes and the contained double-quotes and backslashes must be quoted
by backslashes. Nonexistent properties are created, in which case the
.I type
specifier must be present. See
.BR scf_value_create (3SCF)
for a
list of available property types. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the
privileges required to modify properties. The new value will be appended to
the end of the list of property values associated with the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delpg
.I name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the property group
.I name
of the current selection. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to delete property
groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdelprop\fR \fIpg\fR[\fI/name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the named property group or property of the current selection. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to delete properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delpropvalue
.I pg/name globpattern
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes all values matching the given
.I glob
pattern in the named
property. Succeeds even if no values match. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for
the privileges required to modify properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B describe
.RB [ -v "] [" -t ]
[\fIpropertygroup\fR/\fIproperty\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes either the current or the possible settings.
.sp
When invoked without arguments,
.B describe
gives basic descriptions (if
available) of the currently selected entity and all of its currently set
property groups and properties. A property group or specific property can be
queried by specifying either the property group name, or the property group
name and property name, separated by a slash
.RB ( / ),
as an argument.
.sp
The
.B -v
option gives all information available, including descriptions
for current settings, constraints, and other possible setting choices.
.sp
The
.B -t
option shows only the template data for the selection (see
.BR smf_template (5)),
and does not display the current settings for
property groups and properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B editprop
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Comments of commands to reproduce the property groups and properties of the
current selection are placed in a temporary file and the program named by
the
.B EDITOR
environment variable is invoked to edit it. Upon
completion, the commands in the temporary file are executed. The default
editor is
.BR vi (1).
See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required
to create, modify, or delete properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlistpg\fR [\fIpattern\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the names, types, and flags of property groups of the current
selection. If an argument is given, it is taken as a glob pattern and only
property groups with names which match the argument are listed.
.sp
In interactive mode, a basic description of the property groups is also
given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlistprop\fR [\fIpattern\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists property groups and properties of the current selection. For property
groups, names, types, and flags are listed. For properties, names (prepended
by the property group name and a slash (/)), types, and values are listed.
See
.BR scf_value_create (3SCF)
for a list of available property types. If
an argument is supplied it is taken as a glob pattern and only property
groups and properties with names which match the argument are listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B setenv
[\fB-i\fR | \fB-s\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImethod_name\fR]
.I envvar value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets a method environment variable for a service or instance by changing
the "environment" property in the \fImethod_name\fR property 	group, if that
property group has type "method". If \fImethod_name\fR is not specified and
the \fB-i\fR option is used, the "method_context" property group is used, if
an instance is currently selected. If the
.B -s
option is used and a
service is currently selected, its "method_context" property group is used.
If the
.B -s
option is used and an instance is currently selected, the
"method_context" property group of its parent is used. If neither the
\fB-i\fR option nor the \fB-s\fR option is used, the "start" property group
is searched for in the currently selected entity and, if an instance is
currently selected, its parent is also searched. If the "inetd_start"
property group is not located, it is searched for in a similiar manner.
.sp
.RI "Once the property is located, all values which begin with" " envvar"
followed by a "=" are removed, and the value "\fIenvvar\fR=\fIvalue\fR" is
added. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to modify
properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B setprop
.I pg/name
.RI "= [" type: "] " value 
.ad
.br
.na
.BI "setprop " pg/name
= [\fItype:\fR] ([\fIvalues .\|.\|.\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the
.I name
property of the
.I pg
property group of the current
selection to the given values of type
.IR type .
See
.BR scf_value_create (3SCF)
for a list of available property types. If the
property already exists and the
.I type
disagrees with the existing
.I type
on the property, the subcommand fails. Values may be enclosed in
double-quotes. String values which contain double-quotes or backslashes must
be enclosed by double-quotes and the contained double-quotes and backslashes
must be quoted by backslashes. If the named property does not exist, it is
created, as long as the type is specified. See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the
privileges required to create or modify properties. Multiple values will be
stored in the order in which they are specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unsetenv
[\fB-i\fR | \fB-s\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImethod_name\fR]
.I envvar value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes a method environment variable for a service or instance by changing
the "environment" property in the \fImethod_name\fR property 	group, if that
property group has type "method". If \fImethod_name\fR is not specified and
the \fB-i\fR option is used, the "method_context" property group is used, if
an instance is currently selected. If the
.B -s
option is used and a
service is currently selected, its "method_context" property group is used.
If the
.B -s
option is used and an instance is currently selected, the
"method_context" property group of its parent is used. If neither the
\fB-i\fR option nor the \fB-s\fR option is used, the "start" property group
is searched for in the currently selected entity and, if an instance is
currently selected, its parent is also searched. If the "inetd_start"
property group is not located, it is searched for in a similiar manner.
.sp
.RI "Once the property is located, all values which begin with" " envvar"
followed by "=" are removed. See \fBsmf_security\fR(5) for the privileges
required to modify properties.
.RE

.SS "Snapshot Navigation and Selection Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B listsnap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays snapshots available for the currently selected instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrevert\fR [\fIsnapshot\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reverts the properties of the currently selected instance and its service
to those recorded in the named snapshot. If no argument is given, use the
currently selected snapshot and deselect it on success. The changed property
values can be made active via the
.B refresh
subcommand of
.BR svcadm (1M).
See
.BR smf_security (5)
for the privileges required to
change properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBselectsnap\fR [\fIname\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the current snapshot to the one named by
.IR name .
If no
.I name
is specified, deselect the currently selected snapshot. Snapshots
are read-only.
.RE

.SS "Instance Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B refresh
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Commit the values from the current configuration to the running snapshot,
making them available for use by the currently selected instance. If the
repository subcommand has not been used to select a repository, direct the
instance's restarter to reread the updated configuration.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Importing a Service Description
.sp
.LP
The following example imports a service description for the
.BR seismic
service in the XML manifest specified on the command line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg import /var/svc/manifest/site/seismic.xml\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that the manifest must follow the format specified in
.BR service_bundle (4).

.LP
.B Example 2
Exporting a Service Description
.sp
.LP
To export a service description on the local system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg export dumpadm >/tmp/dump.xml\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Deleting a Service Instance
.sp
.LP
To delete a service instance:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg delete network/inetd-upgrade:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Checking Properties in an Alternate Repository
.sp
.LP
To examine the state of a service's properties after loading an alternate
repository, use the sequence of commands shown below. One might use such
commands, for example, to determine whether a service was enabled in a
particular repository backup.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg\fR
svc:> \fBrepository /etc/svc/repository-boot\fR
svc:> \fBselect telnet:default\fR
svc:/network/telnet:default> \fBlistprop general/enabled\fR
general/enabled  boolean  false
svc:/network/telnet:default> \fBexit\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Enabling Debugging
.sp
.LP
To modify
.B LD_PRELOAD
for a start method and enable the use of
.BR libumem (3LIB)
with debugging features active:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsvccfg -s system/service setenv LD_PRELOAD libumem.so\fR
$ \fBsvccfg -s system/service setenv UMEM_DEBUG default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Using
.B describe
Subcommand
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the
.BR describe
subcommand.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s console-login describe ttymon\fR
ttymon                      application
ttymon/device               astring  /dev/console
   \fBterminal device to be used for the console login prompt\fR
ttymon/label                astring  console
   \fBappropriate entry from /etc/ttydefs\fR
   .\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDITOR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The command to run when the
.B editprop
subcommand is used. The default
editor is
.BR vi (1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more subcommands resulted in failure. Error messages are written to
the standard error stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The interactive output is Uncommitted. The invocation and non-interactive
output are Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcprop (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svc.configd (1M),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR libumem (3LIB),
.BR scf_service_add_pg (3SCF),
.BR scf_value_create (3SCF),
.BR contract (4),
.BR service_bundle (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR fnmatch (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_method (5),
.BR smf_security (5),
.BR smf_template (5)
