'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc. , All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sync 1M "1 Dec 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sync \- update the super block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsync\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sync
executes the
.B sync
system primitive. If the system is to be
stopped,
.B sync
must be called to ensure file system integrity. It will
flush all previously unwritten system buffers out to disk, thus assuring
that all file modifications up to that point will be saved. See
.BR sync (2)
for details.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sync (2),
.BR attributes (5)
