'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH syncstat 1M "9 Mar 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
syncstat \- report driver statistics from a synchronous serial link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/syncstat\fR [\fB-c\fR] \fIdevice\fR [\fIinterval\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B syncstat
command reports the event statistics maintained by a
synchronous serial device driver. The report may be a single snapshot of the
accumulated totals, or a series of samples showing incremental changes.
Prior to these it prints the device name being used to query a particular
device driver, along with a number indicating the channel number (ppa) under
control of that driver.
.sp
.LP
Event statistics are maintained by a driver for each physical channel that
it supports. They are initialized to zero at the time the driver module is
loaded into the system, which may be either at boot time or when one of the
driver's entry points is first called.
.sp
.LP
The
.I device
argument is the name of the serial device as it appears
in the
.B /dev
directory.  For example,
.B zsh0
specifies the first
on-board serial device.
.sp
.LP
The following is a breakdown of
.B syncstat
output:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.1i) lw(4.4i)
lw(1.1i) lw(4.4i)
.
\fBspeed\fRT{
The line speed the device has been set to operate at. It is the user's responsibility to make this value correspond to the modem clocking speed when clocking is provided by the modem.
T}
\fBipkts\fRThe total number of input packets.
\fBopkts\fRThe total number of output packets.
\fBundrun\fRT{
The number of transmitter underrun errors.
T}
\fBovrrun\fRThe number of receiver overrun errors.
\fBabort\fRThe number of aborted received frames.
\fBcrc\fRT{
The number of received frames with CRC errors.
T}
\fBisize\fRT{
The average size (in bytes) of input packets.
T}
\fBosize\fRT{
The average size (in bytes) of output packets.
T}
.TE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Clear the accumulated statistics for the device specified. This may be
useful when it is not desirable to unload a particular driver, or when the
driver is not capable of being unloaded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interval
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
.B syncstat
samples the statistics every
.I interval
seconds and
reports incremental changes. The output reports line utilization for input
and output in place of average packet sizes. These are the relationships
between bytes transferred and the baud rate, expressed as percentages. The
loop repeats indefinitely, with a column heading printed every twenty lines
for convenience.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Sample output from the
.B syncstat
command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsyncstat zsh0\fR


speed ipkts opkts undrun ovrrun abort crc isize osize
9600  15716 17121   0      0      1    3   98    89
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsyncstat \fB-c\fB zsh0\fR

speed ipkts opkts undrun ovrrun abort crc isize osize
9600   0     0     0      0      0     0    0     0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In the following sample output a new line of output is generated every five
seconds:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsyncstat zsh0 5\fR

ipkts opkts undrun ovrrun abort crc iutil outil
12    10      0     0      0     0   5%    4%
22    60      0     0      0     0   3%    90%
36    14      0     0      0     1   51%   2%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR syncinit (1M),
.BR syncloop (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR zsh (7D)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "bad interval: " arg
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The argument
.I arg
is expected to be an interval and could not be
understood.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB device " missing minor device number"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name
.I device
does not end in a decimal number that can be used as
a minor device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B baud rate not set
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.I interval
option is being used and the baud rate on the device is
zero. This would cause a divide-by-zero error when computing the line
utilization statistics.
.RE

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Underrun, overrun, frame-abort, and CRC errors have a variety of causes.
Communication protocols are typically able to handle such errors and
initiate recovery of the transmission in which the error occurred. Small
numbers of such errors are not a significant problem for most protocols.
However, because the overhead involved in recovering from a link error can
be much greater than that of normal operation, high error rates can greatly
degrade overall link throughput. High error rates are often caused by
problems in the link hardware, such as cables, connectors, interface
electronics or telephone lines. They may also be related to excessive load
on the link or the supporting system.
.sp
.LP
The percentages for input and output line utilization reported when using
the
.I interval
option may occasionally be reported as slightly greater
than 100% because of inexact sampling times and differences in the accuracy
between the system clock and the modem clock. If the percentage of use
greatly exceeds 100%, or never exceeds 50%, then the baud rate set for the
device probably does not reflect the speed of the modem.
