'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sys-unconfig 1M "23 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sys-unconfig \- undo a system's configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/sys-unconfig\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sys-unconfig
command is used to restore a system's configuration
to an "as-manufactured" state, ready to be reconfigured again. The system's
configuration consists of hostname, Network Information Service (NIS) domain
name, timezone,
.B IP
address,
.B IP
subnet mask, and root password.
This operation is the inverse of those performed by the
.BR sysidnet (1M),
.BR sysidns (1M),
and
.BR sysidsys "(1M) programs run at boot. See"
.BR sysidtool (1M).
.sp
.LP
.B sys-unconfig
does the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Saves current
.B /etc/inet/hosts
file information in
.BR /etc/inet/hosts.saved .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the current
.B /etc/vfstab
file contains
.B NFS
mount entries,
.RB "saves the " /etc/vfstab " file to " /etc/vfstab.orig .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Restores the default
.B /etc/inet/hosts
file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the default hostname in
.BI /etc/hostname. interface
files
for all interfaces configured when this command is run. To determine which
interfaces are configured, run the command '\fBifconfig-a\fR'. The
.BI /etc/hostname. interface
files corresponding to all of the
interfaces listed in the resulting output, with the exception of the
loopback interface (lo0), will be removed.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the default domainname in
.BR /etc/defaultdomain .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Restores the timezone to PST8PDT in
.BR /etc/TIMEZONE .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Disables the Network Information Service (NIS) and Network Information
Service Plus (NIS+) if either
.B NIS
or
.B NIS+
was configured.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the file
.BR /etc/inet/netmasks .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the file
.BR /etc/defaultrouter .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the password set for root in
.BR /etc/shadow .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the file
.BR /etc/.rootkey .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Executes all system configuration applications. These applications are
defined by prior executions of a
.B "sysidconfig -a"
.IR application .
(See
.BR sysidconfig (1M)).
When \fBsys-unconfig\fR is
run, all system configuration applications are passed one argument,
.BR -u .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the file
.BR /etc/resolv.conf .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Removes the file
.BR /etc/sysidcfg .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Disables
.B LDAP
by removing
.BR /var/ldap/ldap_client_cache ,
.BR /var/ldap/ldap_client_file ,
.BR /var/ldap/ldap_client_cred ,
and
.BR /var/ldap/cachemgr.log .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Regenerates keys for
.BR sshd (1M).
.RE
.sp
.LP
When
.B sys-unconfig
is finished, it performs a system shutdown.
.B sys-unconfig
is a potentially dangerous utility and can only be run by
the super user.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/default/init
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
process control initialization
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/defaultdomain
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
determines host's domain name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/defaultrouter
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
specifies an IPv4 host's default router
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI /etc/hostname. interface
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
identifies symbolic host name associated with network interface
.I interface
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/inet/hosts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
host name database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/inet/netmasks
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
network mask database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nodename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
local source for system name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/.rootkey
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
super-user's secret key
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/shadow
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shadow password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/sysidcfg
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system identification configuration file for diskless booting
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/vfstab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
virtual file system table
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/nis/NIS_COLD_START
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
list of NIS+ servers that serve a host's default domain
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/yp/binding/*/ypservers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
identifies NIS servers to which the client is allowed to bind
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWadmap
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR init (1M),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR sysidconfig (1M),
.BR sysidtool (1M),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR netmasks (4),
.BR shadow (4),
.BR sysidcfg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B sys-unconfig
is not available on diskless clients.
