'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sysidconfig 1M "23 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sysidconfig \- execute system configuration applications, or define set of
system configuration applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsysidconfig\fR [\fB-lv\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIapplication\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbasedir\fR]
     [\fB-r\fR \fIapplication\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Invoked without any options, the
.B sysidconfig
program executes a list
of applications. An application on this list is referred to as a "system
configuration application." Every application on this list will be passed
one command-line argument,
.BR -c .
This flag will cause the system
configuration application to perform its configuration function. Without
options,
.B sysidconfig
should only be invoked by startup scripts, which
occurs during the initial installation and during a reconfigure reboot.
.sp
.LP
All applications on the list will be executed, if possible. All activity
taken by the \fBsysidconfig\fR program is logged in the \fBsysidconfig\fR
log file,
.BR /var/log/sysidconfig.log .
If one or more of the applications
on the list are either not present at execution time, are not executable, or
execute but return a failure code upon completion, then that information
will be logged as well. Successful completion of the program can be assumed
if no error message is present in the log file. Programs are executed
sequentially, with only one configuration application active at a time.
.sp
.LP
Executed with the
.BR -l ,
.BR -a ,
or
.B -r
options, the
.B sysidconfig
program allows the super-user to list the defined
configuration applications, and to add items to or remove items from that
list. Running
.B sysidconfig
with options is the only way to view or
manipulate the list. Only the super-user can execute the \fBsysidconfig\fR
program with options.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -b
and
.B -v
options change the behavior of
.BR sysidconfig ,
and can be used with or without the list manipulation options discussed
above. The
.B -b
.I basedir
option is used to specify a reference
.B root
directory other than the default,
.BR / .
The
.B -v
option
duplicates the log file output on
.BR stdout .
.sp
.LP
By default, no SPARC based applications exist on this list.
.sp
.LP
This application is an extension of the \fBsysidtool\fR(1M) suite of
programs. It is executed during initial installation and during a
reconfigure reboot, before the window system has been started. Graphical
User Interface (GUI) applications will not execute successfully if they are
added to the list of configuration applications via \fBsysidconfig\fR
.BR -a .
.sp
.LP
This program is referenced, but not fully described, in the
.BR sysidtool (1M)
manual page.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The valid options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I application
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add the named application to the list of defined applications. When next
invoked without arguments,
.B sysidconfig
will run this newly added
application after all previously defined applications. \fIapplication\fR
must be a fully qualified path name that is not currently on the list of
applications to execute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I basedir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate base directory (\fB/\fR is defined as the default base
directory if no other is specified). The specified directory is used as the
.B root
directory when adding, listing, removing, or executing
configuration applications. The log file where information is recorded is in
.BR /var/log ,
relative to the specified
.IR basedir .
In the log file,
the
.I basedir
is not noted. This means, for example, that if the
super-user on a diskless client's server executes:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBsysidconfig\fR \fB-b\fR \fB/export/root/\fIclient\fR \fB-a\fR \fB/sbin/\fIsomeapp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

then the diskless client \fIclient\fR would have \fB/sbin/\fIsomeapp\fR
executed upon reconfigure reboot. The diskless client's log file would note
that \fB/sbin/\fIsomeapp\fR was added, not
\fB/export/root/client/sbin/\fIsomeapp.\fR
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with
the
.B -b
option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system,
might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the
non-global zone's file system. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List defined configuration applications. Applications will be executed one
at a time, in the order shown in the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I application
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the named application from the list of defined applications.
.I application
must be a fully qualified path name and it must be on the
existing list of applications to execute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose mode. This option echoes all information sent to the log file to
.BR stdout .
Such information includes timestamp information about when the
program was executed, the names of applications being executed, and results
of those executions.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsysidconfig\fR program will return \fB0\fR if it completes
successfully.
.sp
.LP
When executed with the
.B -r
or
.B -a
options, error conditions or
warnings will be reported on
.BR stderr .
If the requested action completes
successfully, an exit code of
.B 0
will be returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The program was executed by a user other than the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Option
.BR -l ,
.BR -a ,
or
.B -r
was passed and the action could not
be completed successfully.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/log/sysidconfig.log
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B sysidconfig
log file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWadmap
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sys-unconfig (1M),
.BR sysidtool (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
When run without options, a log of the
.B sysidconfig
program's activity
can be found in
.BR /var/log/sysidconfig.log .
This file contains a
timestamp log of each program executed, its resulting
.B stderr
output,
and its exit code. If an application in the list was not found or is not
executable, that will also be noted.
