'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tpmadm 1M "7 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
tpmadm \- administer Trusted Platform Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm status\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm init\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm clear\fR [\fBowner\fR | \fBlock\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm auth\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm keyinfo\fR [\fIuuid\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtpmadm deletekey\fR \fIuuid\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a hardware component that provides for
protected key storage and reliable measurements of software used to boot the
operating system. The
.B tpmadm
utility is used to initialize and administer
the TPM so that it can be used by the operating system and other programs.
.sp
.LP
The TPM subsystem can store and manage an unlimited number of keys for use by
the operating system and by users. Each key is identified by a Universally
Unique Identifier, or UUID.
.sp
.LP
Although the TPM can hold only a limited number of keys at any given time, the
supporting software automatically loads and unloads keys as needed. When a key
is stored outside the TPM, it is always encrypted or "wrapped" by its parent
key so that the key is never exposed in readable form outside the TPM.
.sp
.LP
Before the TPM can be used, it must be initialized by the platform owner. This
process involves setting an owner password which is used to authorize
privileged operations.
.sp
.LP
Although the TPM owner is similar to a traditional superuser, there are two
important differences. First, process privilege is irrelevant for access to TPM
functions. All privileged operations require knowledge of the owner password,
regardless of the privilege level of the calling process. Second, the TPM owner
is not able to override access controls for data protected by TPM keys. The
owner can effectively destroy data by re-initializing the TPM, but he cannot
access data that has been encrypted using TPM keys owned by other users.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are used in the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# tpamadm \fI<subcommand>\fR \fI[operand]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report status information about the TPM. Output includes basic information
about whether ownership of the TPM has been established, current PCR contents,
and the usage of TPM resources such as communication sessions and loaded
keys.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B init
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Initialize the TPM for use. This involves taking ownership of the TPM by
setting the owner authorization password. Taking ownership of the TPM creates a
new storage root key, which is the ancestor of all keys created by this TPM.
Once this command is issued, the TPM must be reset using BIOS operations before
it can be re-initialized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auth
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the owner authorization password for the TPM.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clear lock
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Clear the count of failed authentication attempts. After a number of failed
authentication attempts, the TPM responds more slowly to subsequent attempts,
in an effort to thwart attempts to find the owner password by exhaustive
search. This command, which requires the correct owner password, resets the
count of failed attempts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clear owner
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deactivate the TPM and return it to an unowned state. This operation, which
requires the current TPM owner password, invalidates all keys and data tied to
the TPM. Before the TPM can be used again, the system must be restarted, the
TPM must  be reactivated from the BIOS or ILOM pre-boot environment, and the
TPM must be re-initialized using the
.B "tpmadm init"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBkeyinfo\fR [\fIuuid\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report information about keys stored in the TPM subsystem. Without additional
arguments, this subcommand produces a brief listing of all keys. If the UUID of
an individual key is specified, detailed information about that key is
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B deletekey
.I uuid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the key with the specified UUID from the TPM subsystem's persistent
storage.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
After completing the requested operation,
.B tpmadm
exits with one of the
following status values.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful termination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failure. The requested operation could not be completed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Usage error. The
.B tpmadm
command was invoked with invalid arguments.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
TCG Software Stack (TSS) Specifications:
.B https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TSS
(as of the date of
publication)
