'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tunefs 1M "5 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
tunefs \- tune an existing UFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtunefs\fR [\fB-a\fR \fImaxcontig\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIrotdelay\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fImaxbpg\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fIminfree\fR] [\fB-o\fR space | time] \fIspecial\fR | \fIfilesystem\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B tunefs
is designed to change the dynamic parameters of a file system
that affect the layout policies. When using
.B tunefs
with
.IR filesystem ,
.I filesystem
must be in
.BR /etc/vfstab .
The
parameters that can be changed are indicated by the options given below.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I maxcontig
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The maximum number of logical blocks, belonging to one file, that is
allocated contiguously. The default is calculated as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmaxcontig =\fR \fIdisk drive maximum transfer size / disk block size\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the disk drive's maximum transfer size cannot be determined, the default
value for
.B maxcontig
is calculated from kernel parameters as follows:
.sp
If
.B maxphys
is less than
.BR ufs_maxmaxphys ,
which is 1 Mbyte, then
.B maxcontig
is set to
.BR maxphys .
Otherwise,
.B maxcontig
is set
to
.BR ufs_maxmaxphys .
.sp
You can set
.B maxcontig
to any positive integer value.
.sp
The actual value will be the lesser of what has been specified and what the
hardware supports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I rotdelay
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
This parameter is obsolete as of the Solaris 10 release. The value is
always set to
.BR 0 ,
regardless of the input value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I maxbpg
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Indicates the maximum number of contiguous logical blocks any single file
can allocate from a cylinder group before it is forced to begin allocating
blocks from another cylinder group. Typically this value is set to
approximately one quarter of the total contiguous logical blocks in a
cylinder group. The intent is to prevent any single file from using up all
the blocks in a single cylinder group, thus degrading access times for all
files subsequently allocated in that cylinder group.
.sp
The effect of this limit is to cause big files to do long seeks more
frequently than if they were allowed to allocate all the blocks in a
cylinder group before seeking elsewhere. For file systems with exclusively
large files, this parameter should be set higher.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I minfree
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specifies the minimum free space threshold, or the percentage of space held
back from normal users. This value can be set to
.BR 0 .
However, up to a
factor of three in throughput will be lost over the performance obtained at
a 10% threshold.
.I Note:
If the value is raised above the current usage
level, users will be unable to allocate files until enough files have been
deleted to get under the higher threshold.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fI space\fR\||\|\fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The file system can either be instructed to try to minimize the
.BR time
spent allocating blocks, or to try to minimize the
.B space
fragmentation
on the disk. The default is
.IR time .
.sp
Generally, you should optimize for time unless the file system is over 90%
full.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBtunefs\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mkfs_ufs (1M),
.BR newfs (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
