'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ufsdump 1M "17 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ufsdump \- incremental file system dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ufsdump\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIarguments\fR] \fIfiles_to_dump\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ufsdump
backs up all files specified by
.I files_to_dump
(usually
either a whole file system or files within a file sytem changed after a
certain date) to magnetic tape, diskette, or disk file.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ufsdump
command can only be used on unmounted file systems, or
those mounted read-only. Attempting to dump a mounted, read-write file system
might result in a system disruption or the inability to restore files from
the dump. Consider using the \fBfssnap\fR(1M) command to create a file system
snapshot if you need a point-in-time image of a file system that is
mounted.
.sp
.LP
If a filesystem was mounted with the logging option, it is strongly
recommended that you run
.B ufsdump
as the root user. Running the command
as a non-root user might result in the creation of an inconsistent dump.
.sp
.LP
.I options
is a single string of one-letter
.B ufsdump
options.
.sp
.LP
.I arguments
may be multiple strings whose association with the options
is determined by order. That is, the first argument goes with the first
option that takes an argument; the second argument goes with the second
option that takes an argument, and so on.
.sp
.LP
.I files_to_dump
is required and must be the last argument on the command
line. See
.B OPERANDS
for more information.
.sp
.LP
With most devices
.B ufsdump
can automatically detect the end-of-media.
Consequently, the
.BR d ,
.BR s ,
and
.B t
options are not necessary for
multi-volume dumps, unless
.B ufsdump
does not understand the way the
device detects the end-of-media, or the files are to be restored on a system
with an older version of the
.B restore
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB0\(mi9\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The "dump level." All files specified by \fIfiles_to_dump\fR that have been
modified since the last
.B ufsdump
at a lower dump level are copied to the
.I dump_file
destination (normally a magnetic tape device). For instance,
if a "level \fB2\fR" dump was done on Monday, followed by a "level \fB4\fR"
dump on Tuesday, a subsequent "level \fB3\fR" dump on Wednesday would contain
all files modified or added since the "level \fB2\fR" (Monday) backup. A
"level \fB0\fR" dump copies the entire file system to the \fIdump_file\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.I archive_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Archive file. Archive a dump table-of-contents in the specified
.I archive_file
to be used by \fBufsrestore\fR(1M) to determine whether a
file is in the dump file that is being restored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b
.I factor
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Blocking factor. Specify the blocking factor for tape writes. The default is
20 blocks per write for tapes of density less than 6250BPI (bytes-per-inch).
The default blocking factor for tapes of density 6250BPI and greater is 64.
The default blocking factor for cartridge tapes (\fBc\fR option) is 126. The
highest blocking factor available with most tape drives is 126. Note: the
blocking factor is specified in terms of 512-byte blocks, for compatibility
with
.BR tar (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cartridge. Set the defaults for cartridge instead of the standard half-inch
reel. This sets the density to 1000BPI and the blocking factor to 126. Since
.B ufsdump
can automatically detect the end-of-media, only the blocking
parameter normally has an effect. When cartridge tapes are used, and this
option is
.I not
specified,
.B ufsdump
will slightly miscompute the
size of the tape. If the
.BR b ,
.BR d ,
.B s
or
.B t
options are
specified with this option, their values will override the defaults set by
this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.I bpi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Tape density. Not normally required, as
.B ufsdump
can detect
end-of-media. This parameter can be used to keep a running tab on the amount
of tape used per reel. The default density is 6250BPI except when the \fBc\fR
option is used for cartridge tape, in which case it is assumed to be 1000BPI
per track. Typical values for tape devices are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1/2 inch tape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
6250 BPI
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1/4 inch cartridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
1000 BPI The tape densities and other options are documented in the
.BR st (7D)
man page.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B D
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Diskette. Dump to diskette.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B f
.I dump_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dump file. Use
.I dump_file
as the file to dump to, instead of
.BR /dev/rmt/0 .
If \fIdump_file\fR is specified as \fB\(mi\fR, dump to
standard output.
.sp
If the name of the file is of the form \fImachine\fB:\fIdevice,\fR the
dump is done from the specified machine over the network using
.BR rmt (1M).
Since
.B ufsdump
is normally run by root, the name of the local machine
must appear in the
.B /.rhosts
file of the remote machine. If the file is
specified as \fIuser\fB@\fImachine\fB:\fIdevice,\fR \fBufsdump\fR
will attempt to execute as the specified user on the remote machine. The
specified user must have a \fB\&.rhosts\fR file on the remote machine that
allows the user invoking the command from the local machine to access the
remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Autoload. When the end-of-tape is reached before the dump is complete, take
the drive offline and wait up to two minutes for the tape drive to be ready
again. This gives autoloading (stackloader) tape drives a chance to load a
new tape. If the drive is ready within two minutes, continue. If it is not,
prompt for another tape and wait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B L
.I string
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the tape label to
.IR string ,
instead of the default
.BR none .
.I string
may be no more than sixteen characters long. If it is longer, it
is truncated and a warning printed; the dump will still be done. The tape
label is specific to the
.B ufsdump
tape format, and bears no resemblance
to
.B IBM
or
.BR ANSI "-standard tape labels."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Notify all operators in the
.B sys
group that
.B ufsdump
requires
attention by sending messages to their terminals, in a manner similar to that
used by the
.BR wall "(1M) command. Otherwise, such messages are sent only to"
the terminals (such as the console) on which the user running \fBufsdump\fR
is logged in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B N
.I device_name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I device_name
when recording information in
.BR /etc/dumpdates
(see the
.B u
option) and when comparing against information in
.B /etc/dumpdates
for incremental dumps. The
.I device_name
provided
can contain no white space as defined in \fBscanf\fR(3C) and is
case-sensitive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B o
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Offline. Take the drive offline when the dump is complete or the
end-of-media is reached and rewind the tape, or eject the diskette. In the
case of some autoloading 8mm drives, the tape is removed from the drive
automatically. This prevents another process which rushes in to use the
drive, from inadvertently overwriting the media.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.I size
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the
.I size
of the volume being dumped to. Not normally required,
as
.B ufsdump
can detect end-of-media. When the specified size is reached,
.B ufsdump
waits for you to change the volume.
.B ufsdump
interprets
the specified size as the length in feet for tapes and cartridges, and as the
number of 1024-byte blocks for diskettes. The values should be a little
smaller than the actual physical size of the media (for example, 425 for a
450-foot cartridge). Typical values for tape devices depend on the \fBc\fR
option, for cartridge devices, and the
.B D
option for diskettes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1/2 inch tape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
2300 feet
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 60-Mbyte 1/4 inch cartridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
425 feet
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 150-Mbyte 1/4 inch cartridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
700 feet
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B diskette
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
1422 blocks (Corresponds to a 1.44-Mbyte diskette, with one cylinder
reserved for bad block information.)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B S
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Size estimate. Determine the amount of space that is needed to perform the
dump without actually doing it, and display the estimated number of bytes it
will take. This is useful with incremental dumps to determine how many
volumes of media will be needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.I tracks
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the number of tracks for a cartridge tape. Not normally required, as
.B ufsdump
can detect end-of-media. The default is 9 tracks. The \fBt\fR
option is not compatible with the
.B D
option. Values for Sun-supported
tape devices are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 60-Mbyte 1/4 inch cartridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
9 tracks
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 150-Mbyte 1/4 inch cartridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
18 tracks
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBT\fR \fItime_wait\fB[hms]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the amount of time to wait for an
.B autoload
command to complete.
This option is ignored unless the
.B l
option has also been specified. The
default time period to wait is two minutes. Specify time units with a
trailing
.B h
( for hours),
.B m
(for minutes), or
.B s
(for
seconds). The default unit is minutes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update the dump record. Add an entry to the file
.B /etc/dumpdates,
for
each file system successfully dumped that includes the file system name (or
.I device_name
as specified with the
.B N
option), date, and dump
level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verify. After each tape or diskette is written, verify the contents of the
media against the source file system. If any discrepancies occur, prompt for
new media, then repeat the dump/verification process. The file system
.I must
be unmounted. This option cannot be used to verify a dump to
standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Warning. List the file systems that have not been backed up within a day.
This information is gleaned from the files
.B /etc/dumpdates
and
.BR /etc/vfstab .
When the
.B w
option is used, all other options are
ignored. After reporting,
.B ufsdump
exits immediately.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B W
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Warning with highlight. Similar to the
.B w
option, except that the
.B W
option includes all file systems that appear in
.BR /etc/dumpdates ,
along with information about their most recent dump dates and levels. File
systems that have not been backed up within a day are highlighted.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I files_to_dump
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the files to dump. Usually it identifies a whole file system by
its raw device name (for example,
.BR /dev/rdsk/c0t3d0s6 ).
Incremental
dumps (levels
.B 1
to
.BR 9 )
of files changed after a certain date only
apply to a whole file system. Alternatively,
.I files_to_dump
can identify
individual files or directories. All named directories that may be examined
by the user running
.BR ufsdump ,
as well as any explicitly-named files, are
dumped. This dump is equivalent to a level
.B 0
dump of the indicated
portions of the filesystem, except that
.B /etc/dumpdates
is not updated
even if the
.B -u
option has been specified. In all cases, the files must
be contained in the same file system, and the file system must be local to
the system where
.B ufsdump
is being run.
.sp
.I files_to_dump
is required and must be the last argument on the command
line.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no
.I options
are given, the default is \fB9uf /dev/rmt/0\fR
.IR files_to_dump .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBufsdump\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using \fBufsdump\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command makes a full dump of a root file system on
.BR c0t3d0 ,
on a 150-MByte cartridge tape unit
.BR 0 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# ufsdump 0cfu /dev/rmt/0 /dev/rdsk/c0t3d0s0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command makes and verifies an incremental dump at level
.B 5
of the
.B usr
partition of
.BR c0t3d0 ,
on a 1/2 inch reel tape
unit
.BR 1, :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# ufsdump 5fuv /dev/rmt/1 /dev/rdsk/c0t3d0s6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
While running, \fBufsdump\fR emits many verbose messages. \fBufsdump\fR
returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Normal exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Startup errors encountered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Abort \(mi no checkpoint attempted.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/rmt/0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default unit to dump to
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dumpdates
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
dump date record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
to find group
.BR sys
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
to gain access to remote system with drive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/vfstab
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
list of file systems
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cpio (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR dd (1M),
.BR devnm (1M),
.BR fssnap (1M),
.BR prtvtoc (1M),
.BR rmt (1M),
.BR shutdown (1M),
.BR ufsrestore (1M),
.BR volcopy (1M),
.BR wall (1M),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR ufsdump (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR st (7D)
.SH NOTES
.SS "Read Errors"
.sp
.LP
Fewer than 32 read errors on the file system are ignored.
.SS "Process Per Reel"
.sp
.LP
Because each reel requires a new process, parent processes for reels that
are already written hang around until the entire tape is written.
.SS "Operator Intervention"
.sp
.LP
.B ufsdump
requires operator intervention on these conditions: end of
volume, end of dump, volume write error, volume open error or disk read error
(if there are more than a threshold of 32). In addition to alerting all
operators implied by the
.B n
option,
.B ufsdump
interacts with the
operator on \fBufsdump\fR's control terminal at times when \fBufsdump\fR can
no longer proceed, or if something is grossly wrong. All questions
.B ufsdump
poses
.I must
be answered by typing
.B yes
or
.BR no ,
as appropriate.
.sp
.LP
Since backing up a disk can involve a lot of time and effort, \fBufsdump\fR
checkpoints at the start of each volume. If writing that volume fails for
some reason,
.B ufsdump
will, with operator permission, restart itself
from the checkpoint after a defective volume has been replaced.
.SS "Suggested Dump Schedule"
.sp
.LP
It is vital to perform full, "level \fB0\fR", dumps at regular intervals.
When performing a full dump, bring the machine down to single-user mode using
.BR shutdown (1M).
While preparing for a full dump, it is a good idea to
clean the tape drive and heads. Incremental dumps should be performed with
the system running in single-user mode.
.sp
.LP
Incremental dumps allow for convenient backup and recovery of active files
on a more frequent basis, with a minimum of media and time. However, there
are some tradeoffs. First, the interval between backups should be kept to a
minimum (once a day at least). To guard against data loss as a result of a
media failure (a rare, but possible occurrence), capture active files on (at
least) two sets of dump volumes. Another consideration is the desire to keep
unnecessary duplication of files to a minimum to save both operator time and
media storage. A third consideration is the ease with which a particular
backed-up version of a file can be located and restored. The following
four-week schedule offers a reasonable tradeoff between these goals.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
              Sun    Mon    Tue    Wed    Thu    Fri
    Week 1:   Full    5      5      5      5      3
    Week 2:           5      5      5      5      3
    Week 3:           5      5      5      5      3
    Week 4:           5      5      5      5      3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Although the Tuesday through Friday incrementals contain "extra copies" of
files from Monday, this scheme assures that any file modified during the week
can be recovered from the previous day's incremental dump.
.SS "Process Priority of ufsdump"
.sp
.LP
.B ufsdump
uses multiple processes to allow it to read from the disk and
write to the media concurrently. Due to the way it synchronizes between these
processes, any attempt to run dump with a
.B nice
(process priority) of
`\(mi5' or better will likely make \fBufsdump\fR run \fIslower\fR instead of
faster.
.SS "Overlapping Partitions"
.sp
.LP
Most disks contain one or more overlapping slices because slice 2 covers the
entire disk. The other slices are of various sizes and usually do not
overlap. For example, a common configuration places
.B root
on slice 0,
.B swap
on slice 1,
.B /opt
on slice 5 and
.B /usr
on slice 6.
.sp
.LP
It should be emphasized that \fBufsdump\fR dumps one \fBufs\fR file system
at a time. Given the above scenario where slice 0 and slice 2 have the same
starting offset, executing
.B ufsdump
on slice 2 with the intent of
dumping the entire disk would instead dump only the
.B root
file system on
slice 0. To dump the entire disk, the user must dump the file systems on each
slice separately.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/vfstab
file does not allow the desired frequency of backup
for file systems to be specified (as
.B /etc/fstab
did). Consequently, the
.B w
and
.B W
options assume file systems should be backed up daily,
which limits the usefulness of these options.
