'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ufsrestore 1M "24 Sep 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ufsrestore \- incremental file system restore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ufsrestore\fR i | r | R | t | x [abcdfhlmostvyLT]
     [\fIarchive_file\fR] [\fIfactor\fR] [\fIdumpfile\fR] [\fIn\fR] [\fIlabel\fR]
     [\fItimeout\fR] [\fIfilename\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ufsrestore
utility restores files from backup media created with
.RB "the " ufsdump " command. " ufsrestores 's
actions are controlled by the
.I key
argument. The
.I key
is exactly one
.B function
.I letter
.RB ( i ,
.BR r ,
.B R
,
.BR t ,
or
.BR x )
and zero or more
.IR "function modifier" s
(letters). The
.I key
string contains no
.B SPACE
characters. Function modifier arguments are listed on the
command line in the same order as their corresponding function modifiers
appear in the
.I key
string.
.sp
.LP
.I filename
arguments which appear on the command line, or as arguments
to an interactive command, are treated as shell
.B glob
patterns by the
.B x
and
.B t
functions; any files or directories matching the
patterns are selected. The metacharacters
.BR * ,
.BR ? ,
and
.B [ ]
must be protected from the shell if they appear on the command line. There
is no way to quote these metacharacters to explicitly match them in a
filename.
.sp
.LP
The temporary files
.B rstdir*
and
.B rstmode*
are placed in
.B /tmp
by default. If the environment variable
.B TMPDIR
is defined
with a non-empty value, that location is used instead of
.BR /tmp .
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Function Letters"
.sp
.LP
You must specify one (and only one) of the function letters listed below.
Note that
.BR i ,
.BR x ,
and
.B r
are intended to restore files into
an empty directory. The
.B R
function is intended for restoring into a
populated directory.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B i
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Interactive. After reading in the directory information from the media,
.B ufsrestore
invokes a shell-like interface that allows you to browse
through the dump file's directory hierarchy and select individual files to
be extracted. Restoration has the same semantics as
.B x
(see below). See
.BR "Interactive Commands" ,
below, for a description of available
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.RB "Recursive. Starting with an empty directory and a level 0 dump, the" " r"
function recreates the filesystem relative to the current working directory,
exactly as it appeared when the dump was made. Information used to restore
incremental dumps on top of the full dump (for example,
.BR restoresymtable )
is also included. Several
.B ufsrestore
runs are
typical, one for each higher level of dump (0, 1, .\|.\|., 9).  Files that were
deleted between the level 0 and a subsequent incremental dump will not exist
after the final restore. To completely restore a file system, use the
.B r
function restore the level 0 dump, and again for each incremental
dump. Although  this function letter is intended for a complete restore onto
a new file system (one just created with
.BR newfs (1M)),
if the file
system contains files not on the backup media, they are preserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B R
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Resume restoring. If an
.BR r -mode
\fBufsrestore\fR was interrupted, this
function prompts for the volume from which to resume restoring and continues
the restoration from where it was left off.  Otherwise identical to
.BR r .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Table of contents. List each
.I filename
that appears on the media. If
no
.I filename
argument is given, the root directory is listed. This
results in a list of all files on the media, unless the
.B h
function
modifier is in effect. The table of contents is taken from the media or from
the specified archive file, when the
.B a
function modifier is used. The
.B a
function modifier is mutually exclusive with the
.B x
and
.BR r
function letters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B x
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Extract the named files from the media. Files are restored to the same
relative locations that they had in the original file system.
.sp
If the
.I filename
argument matches a directory whose contents were
written onto the media, and the
.B h
modifier is not in effect, the
directory is recursively extracted, relative to the current directory, which
is expected to be empty. For each file, the owner, modification time, and
mode are restored (if possible).
.sp
If you omit the
.I filename
argument or specify \fB\&.\fR, the root
directory is extracted. This results in the entire tape being extracted,
unless the
.B h
modifier is in effect. . With the
.B x
function,
existing files are overwritten and
.B ufsrestore
displays the names of
the overwritten files. Overwriting a currently-running executable can have
unfortunate consequences.
.sp
Use the
.B x
option to restore partial file system dumps, as they are
(by definition) not entire file systems.
.RE

.SS "Function Modifiers"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "a " archive_file
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Read the table of contents from
.I archive_file
instead of the media.
This function modifier can be used in combination with the
.BR t ,
.BR i ,
or
.B x
function letters, making it possible to check whether files are
.RB "on the media without having to mount the media. When used with the" " x"
and interactive
.RB ( i )
function letters, it prompts for the volume
containing the file(s) before extracting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "b " factor
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Blocking factor. Specify the blocking factor for tape reads. For variable
length
.B SCSI
tape devices, unless the data was written with the default
blocking factor, a blocking factor at least as great as that used to write
the tape must be used; otherwise, an error will be generated. Note that a
tape block is 512 bytes. Refer to the man page for your specific tape driver
for the maximum blocking factor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Convert the contents of the media in 4.1BSD format to the new
.B ufs
file system format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Debug. Turn on debugging output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "f " dump_file
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Use
.IR dump_file " instead of "
.B /dev/rmt/0
as the file to restore
from. Typically
.I dump_file
specifies a tape or diskette drive. If
.I dump_file
is specified as `\fB\(mi\fR\&',
.B ufsrestore
reads from
the standard input. This allows
.BR ufsdump (1M)
and \fBufsrestore\fR to be
used in a pipeline to copy a file system:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# ufsdump 0f \(mi /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s7 \e
 | (cd /home;ufsrestore xf \(mi)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the name of the file is of the form \fImachine\fB:\fIdevice\fR,
the restore is done from the specified machine over the network using
.BR rmt (1M).
Since
.B ufsrestore
is normally run by root, the name of
the local machine must appear in the
.B /.rhosts
file of the remote
machine. If the file is specified as
\fIuser\fB@\fImachine\fB:\fIdevice\fR,
.B ufsrestore
will
attempt to execute as the specified user on the remote machine. The
specified user must have a \fB\&.rhosts\fR file on the remote machine that
allows the user invoking the command from the local machine to access the
remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Extract or list the actual directory, rather than the files that it
references. This prevents hierarchical restoration of complete subtrees from
the tape.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Autoload. When the end-of-tape is reached before the restore is complete,
take the drive off-line and wait up to two minutes (the default, see the
.B T
function modifier) for the tape drive to be ready again. This gives
autoloading (stackloader) tape drives a chance to load a new tape. If the
drive is ready within two minutes, continue. If it is not, prompt for
another tape and wait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "L " label
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The label that should appear in the header of the dump file. If the labels
do not match,
.B ufsrestore
issues a diagnostic and exits. The tape label
is specific to the
.B ufsdump
tape format, and bears no resemblance to
.B IBM
or
.BR ANSI "-standard tape labels."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Extract by inode numbers rather than by filename to avoid regenerating
complete pathnames. Regardless of where the files are located in the dump
hierarchy, they are restored into the current directory and renamed with
their inode number. This is useful if only a few files are being
extracted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B o
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Offline. Take the drive off-line when the restore is complete or the
end-of-media is reached and rewind the tape, or eject the diskette. In the
case of some autoloading 8mm drives, the tape is removed from the drive
automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "s " n
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Skip to the
.IR n th
file when there are multiple dump files on the same
tape. For example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# ufsrestore xfs /dev/rmt/0hn 5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

would position you to the fifth file on the tape when reading volume 1 of
the dump. If a dump extends over more than one volume, all volumes except
the first are assumed to start at position 0, no matter what "\fBs\fR
\fIn\fR" value is specified.
.sp
If "\fBs\fR \fIn\fR" is specified, the backup media must be at \fBBOT\fR
(beginning of tape). Otherwise, the initial positioning to read the table of
contents will fail, as it is performed by skipping the tape forward
.IB n -1
files rather than by using absolute positioning. This is
because on some devices absolute positioning is very time consuming.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T timeout [hms]
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Sets the amount of time to wait for an autoload command to complete. This
function modifier is ignored unless the
.B l
function modifier has also
been specified. The default timeout period is two minutes. The time units
may be specified as a trailing
.B h
(hours),
.B m
(minutes), or
.B s
(seconds). The default unit is minutes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B v
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Verbose.
.B ufsrestore
displays the name and inode number of each file
it restores, preceded by its file type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B y
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Do not ask whether to abort the restore in the event of tape errors.
.B ufsrestore
tries to skip over the bad tape block(s) and continue as
best it can.
.RE

.SS "Interactive Commands"
.sp
.LP
.B ufsrestore
enters interactive mode when invoked with the
.BR i
function letters. Interactive commands are reminiscent of the shell. For
those commands that accept an argument, the default is the current
directory. The interactive options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBadd [\fIfilename\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Add the named file or directory to the list of files to extract. If a
directory is specified, add that directory and its files (recursively) to
the extraction list (unless the
.B h
modifier is in effect).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "cd " directory
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Change to
.I directory
(within the dump file).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdelete [\fIfilename\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Delete the current directory, or the named file or directory from the list
of files to extract. If a directory is specified, delete that directory and
all its descendents from the extraction list (unless the
.B h
modifier is
in effect). The most expedient way to extract a majority of files from a
directory is to add that directory to the extraction list, and then delete
specific files to omit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B extract
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Extract all files on the extraction list from the dump media.
.B ufsrestore
asks which volume the user wishes to mount. The fastest way
to extract a small number of files is to start with the last volume and work
toward the first. If "\fBs\fR \fIn\fR" is given on the command line, volume
1 will automatically be positioned to file
.I n
when it is read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B help
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display a summary of the available commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBls [\fIdirectory\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
List files in
.I directory
or the current directory, represented by a
`\fB\&.\fR' (period). Directories are appended with a `\fB/\fR' (slash).
Entries marked for extraction are prefixed with a
.RB ` * '
(asterisk). If
the verbose option is in effect, inode numbers are also listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmarked [\fIdirectory\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Like
.BR ls ,
except only files marked for extraction are listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pager
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Toggle the pagination of the output from the
.B ls
and
.BR marked
commands. The pager used is that defined by the
.B PAGER
environment
variable, or more(1) if that envar is not defined. The
.B PAGER
envar may
include white-space-separated arguments for the pagination program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pwd
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print the full pathname of the current working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.B ufsrestore
exits immediately, even if the extraction list is not
empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B setmodes
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prompts: \fBset owner/mode for\fR `\fB\&.\fR' (period). Type
.B y
for
yes to set the mode (permissions, owner, times) of the current directory
`\fB\&.\fR' (period) into which files are being restored equal to the mode
of the root directory of the file system from which they were dumped.
Normally, this is what you want when restoring a whole file system, or
restoring individual files into the same locations from which they were
dumped. Type
.B n
for no, to leave the mode of the current directory
unchanged. Normally, this is what you want when restoring part of a dump to
a directory other than the one from which the files were dumped.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "setpager " command
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Sets the command to use for paginating output instead of the default or
that inherited from the environment. The
.I command
string may include
arguments in addition to the command itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verbose
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Toggle the status of the
.B v
modifier. While
.B v
is in effect, the
.B ls
command lists the inode numbers of all entries, and
.B ufsrestore
displays information about each file as it is extracted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B what
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display the dump header on the media.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filename
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the pathname of files (or directories) to be restored to disk.
Unless the
.B h
function modifier is also used, a directory name refers
to the files it contains, and (recursively) its subdirectories and the files
they contain.
.I filename
is associated with either the
.B x
or
.B t
function letters, and must come last.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B ufsrestore
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (
2^31 bytes).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred. Verbose messages are displayed.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAGER
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The command to use as a filter for paginating output. This can also be used
to specify the options to be used. Default is
.BR more (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TMPDIR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Selects the directory for temporary files. Defaults to
.B /tmp
if not
defined in the environment.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/rmt/0
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
the default tape drive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $TMPDIR/rstdir*
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
file containing directories on the tape
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $TMPDIR/rstmode*
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
owner, mode, and timestamps for directories
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&./restoresymtable\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
information passed between incremental restores
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR more (1),
.BR mkfs (1M),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR rmt (1M),
.BR ufsdump (1M),
.BR ufsdump (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
.B ufsrestore
complains about bad option characters.
.sp
.LP
Read errors result in complaints. If
.B y
has been specified, or the
user responds
.BR y ,
.B ufsrestore
will attempt to continue.
.sp
.LP
If the dump extends over more than one tape,
.B ufsrestore
asks the user
to change tapes. If the
.B x
or
.B i
function letter has been
specified,
.B ufsrestore
also asks which volume the user wishes to mount.
If the
.B s
modifier has been specified, and volume 1 is mounted, it is
automatically positioned to the indicated file.
.sp
.LP
There are numerous consistency checks that can be listed by
\fBufsrestore\fR. Most checks are self-explanatory or can "never happen".
Common errors are given below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Converting to new file system format
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A dump tape created from the old file system has been loaded. It is
automatically converted to the new file system format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB filename ": not found on tape"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified file name was listed in the tape directory, but was not found
on the tape. This is caused by tape read errors while looking for the file,
using a dump tape created on an active file system, or restoring a partial
dump with the
.B r
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B expected next file
.IB inumber ", got"
\fIinumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A file that was not listed in the directory showed up. This can occur when
using a dump tape created on an active file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Incremental tape too low
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When doing an incremental restore, a tape that was written before the
previous incremental tape, or that has too low an incremental level has been
loaded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Incremental tape too high
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When doing incremental restore, a tape that does not begin its coverage
where the previous incremental tape left off, or one that has too high an
incremental level has been loaded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "media read"
.B "error: invalid"
.B argument
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Blocking factor specified for read is smaller than the blocking factor used
to write data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Tape read error while restoring
.ad
.br
.na
.B "Tape read error while skipping over inode inumber
.ad
.br
.na
.B "Tape read error while trying to resynchronize
.ad
.br
.na
\fBA tape read error has\ occurred\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a file name is specified, then its contents are probably partially
wrong. If an inode is being skipped or the tape is trying to resynchronize,
then no extracted files have been corrupted, though files may not be found
on the tape.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B resync ufsrestore, skipped
.I num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
After a tape read error,
.B ufsrestore
may have to resynchronize itself.
This message lists the number of blocks that were skipped over.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Incorrect tape label. Expected `foo', got `bar'.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B L
option was specified, and its value did not match what was
recorded in the header of the dump file.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B ufsrestore
can get confused when doing incremental restores from dump
tapes that were made on active file systems.
.sp
.LP
A
.B "level 0"
dump must be done after a full restore. Because
.B ufsrestore
runs in user mode, it has no control over inode allocation.
This means that
.B ufsrestore
repositions the files, although it does not
change their contents. Thus, a full dump must be done to get a new set of
directories reflecting the new file positions, so that later incremental
dumps will be correct.
