'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH unshare_nfs 1M "6 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
unshare_nfs \- make local NFS file systems unavailable for mounting by
remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunshare\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B unshare
command makes local file systems unavailable for mounting
by remote systems. The shared file system must correspond to a line with NFS
as the
.I FSType
in the file
.BR /etc/dfs/sharetab .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
This option may be omitted if NFS is the first file system type listed in
the file
.BR /etc/dfs/fstypes .
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dfs/fstypes
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dfs/sharetab
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfssu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nfsd (1M),
.BR share (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the file system being unshared is a symbolic link to a valid pathname,
the canonical path (the path which the symbolic link follows) will be
unshared.
.sp
.LP
.RB "For example, if " /export/foo " is a symbolic link to " /export/bar 
.RB ( "/export/foo -> /export/bar" "), the following " unshare " command will"
result in
.B /export/bar
as the unshared pathname (and not
.BR /export/foo ):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example#  unshare -F nfs /export/foo
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For file systems that are accessed by NFS Version 4 clients, once the
unshare is complete, all NFS Version 4 state (open files and file locks) are
released and unrecoverable by the clients. If the intent is to share the
file system after some administrative action, the NFS daemon
.RB ( nfsd )
should first be stopped and then the file system unshared. After the
administrative action is complete, the file system would then be shared and
the NFS daemon restarted. See
.BR nfsd (1M)
