'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH updatehome 1M "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
updatehome \- update the home directory copy and link files for the current
label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/updatehome\fR  [\fB-cirs\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B updatehome
reads the user's minimum-label copy and link-control files
(\fB\&.copy_files\fR and \fB\&.link_files\fR). These files contain a list of
files to be copied and symbolically linked from the user's minimum-label
home directory to the user's home directory at the current label.
.sp
.LP
The Solaris Trusted Extensions
.B dtsession
program performs an
.B updatehome
whenever a newly labeled workspace is created so that the
user's favorite files are available for use. For example, the user probably
wants a symbolic link to such files as \fB\&.profile\fR, \fB\&.login\fR,
\fB\&.cshrc\fR, \fB\&.exrc\fR, \fB\&.mailrc\fR, and
.BR ~/bin .
The
.B updatehome
command provides a convenient mechanism for accomplishing
this symlink. The user can add files to those to be copied
(\fB\&.copy_files\fR) and to those to be symbolically linked
(\fB\&.link_files\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Replace existing home-directory copies at the current label. The default is
to skip over existing copies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Ignore errors encountered. The default aborts on error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Replace existing home-directory copies or symbolic links at the current
label. This option implies options
.B -c
and
.BR -s .
The default is to
skip over existing copies or symbolic links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Replace existing home-directory symbolic links at the current label. The
default is to skip over existing symbolic links.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B updatehome
returns
.BR 0 .
Upon failure,
.B updatehome
returns
.B 1
and writes diagnostic messages to standard
error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A Sample \fB\&.copy_files\fR File
.sp
.LP
The files that are listed in \fB\&.copy_files\fR can be modified at every
user's label.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.cshrc
\&.mailrc
\&.mozilla/bookmarks.html
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
A Sample \fB\&.link_files\fR File
.sp
.LP
The files that are listed in \fB\&.link_files\fR can be modified at the
lowest label. The changes propagate to the other labels that are available
to the user.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
~/bin
\&.mozilla/preferences
\&.xrc
\&.rhosts
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Updating the Linked and Copied Files
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.copy_files\fR and \fB\&.link_files\fR were updated by the user at
the minimum label. At a higher label, the user refreshes the copies and the
links. No privileges are required to run the command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBupdatehome -r\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.copy_files
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
List of files to be copied
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.link_files
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
List of files to be symbolically linked
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\&.copy_files and .link_files Files\fR in \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
