'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uucheck 1M "18 May 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
uucheck \- check the uucp directories and permissions file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/uucp/uucheck\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fIdebug-level\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B uucheck
checks for the presence of the
.B uucp
system required
files and directories.
.B uucheck
also does error checking of the
.B Permissions
file
.RB ( /etc/uucp/Permissions ).
.sp
.LP
.B uucheck
is executed during package installation.
.B uucheck
can
only be used by the super-user or
.BR uucp .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Give a detailed (verbose) explanation of how the
.B uucp
programs will
interpret the
.B Permissions
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -x " debug-level"
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Produce debugging output on the standard output.
.I debug-level
is a
number from
.B 0
to
.BR 9 .
Higher numbers give more detailed debugging
information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Limits
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Permissions
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/locks/*
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/uucp/*
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/uucppublic/*
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbnuu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR uux (1C),
.BR uucico (1M),
.BR uusched (1M),
.B attributes
(5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The program does not check file/directory modes or some errors in the
.B Permissions
file such as duplicate login or machine name.
