'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vdiskadm 1M "2 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vdiskadm \- create and manage virtual disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR create \fB-s\fR \fIsize\fR [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR],[\fIopt\fR]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR destroy [\fB-r\fR] \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR snapshot \fIvdname\fR@\fIsnapname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR rollback [\fB-r\fR] \fIsnapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR clone [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR \fIclone_vdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR move \fIvdname\fR \fIdir\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR rename \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR list [\fB-fp\fR]\fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR verify \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR prop-get [\fB-l\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR prop-set  \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR prop-add  \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR prop-del  \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR import [\fB-fnpqm\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fItype\fR] \fB-d\fR file|zvol|dsk
     [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR export \fB-x\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR] \fB-d\fR file|zvol|dsk \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR convert [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] \fIvdname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR translate [\fB-i\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] \fB-I\fR \fIinput_file\fR \fB-x\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]
     \fB-d\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvdiskadm\fR help [\fIcommand\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B vdiskadm
command manages virtual disks within
.BR dom0 .
In the
SYNOPSIS above,
.I vdname
is the pathname of the virtual disk; it has a
maximum length of
.B MAXPATHLEN
(1024 bytes).
.sp
.LP
\fBvdiskadm\fR is implemented as a set of subcommands, many with their own
options and operands. These subcommands are described under "Subcommands,"
below.
.sp
.LP
The following subsections describe concepts related to virtual disks.
.SS "Snapshots"
.sp
.LP
A snapshot is a read-only copy of a virtual disk. Snapshots can be created
extremely quickly and initially consume little space. As data  within the
active virtual disk changes, the snapshot consumes more data than would
otherwise be shared with the active virtual disk.
.SS "Clones"
.sp
.LP
A clone is a writable copy of a virtual disk. The default type of clone is
a merged (that is, coalesced) copy of the original virtual disk. An example
of a merged clone occurs when a virtual disk is comprised of several
snapshots; a subsequent clone operation results in a new virtual disk
containing no snapshots. A clone will be of the same type as the original
virtual disk (that is,
.BR vmdk:fixed ).
When a merged clone is created
there is no linkage back to the original virtual disk or to any of its
snapshots. This lack of linkage allows the merged clone to be moved to
another physical machine.
.SS "Numeric Values"
.sp
.LP
The values of numeric properties can be specified using human-readable
suffixes, such as
.BR k ,
.BR KB ,
.BR M ,
.BR Gb ,
and so forth, up to
\fBZ\fR for zettabyte).  The  following are all valid (and equal)
specifications:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
1536M  1.5g  1.50GB
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Types of Virtual Disks"
.sp
.LP
The following types and options of virtual disks are supported:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBvmdk:fixed\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B vmdk:sparse
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBvdi:fixed\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B vdi:sparse
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBvhd:fixed\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B vhd:sparse
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBraw:fixed\fR
.RE
.sp
.LP
where
.B vmdk
is the native VMware format,
.B vdi
is the native
VirtualBox format,
.B vhd
is the native Microsoft format, and \fBraw\fR
describes a file that looks like a raw disk. A
.B raw
disk is always in
fixed format so that option can be explicitly set or implicitly
understood.
.sp
.LP
If the type is not specified, the default value is
.BR vmdk .
If the
option is not specified, the default value is \fBfixed\fR for type \fBraw\fR
and
.B sparse
for types
.BR vmdk ,
.BR vdi ,
and
.BR vhd .
.SS "Native and User-defined Properties"
.sp
.LP
Properties are divided into two types, native and user defined. Native
properties either export internal statistics or control
.BR vdiskadm
behavior. In addition, native properties are either editable or read-only.
User-defined properties are arbitrary strings that have no effect on
\fBvdiskadm\fR behavior. You can use them to annotate virtual disks in a way
that is meaningful in your environment. User-defined property names must
contain a colon (\fB:\fR) character, to distinguish them from native
properties.
.sp
.LP
Properties are associated only with the virtual disk and not with
individual snapshots.
.sp
.LP
Every virtual disk has a set of native properties that export statistics
about the virtual disk, as well as control various behaviors.
.sp
.LP
The following are the native properties for a virtual disk:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cdrom
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boolean property that is true if the virtual disk is a CDROM.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B removable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boolean property that is true if the virtual disk is a removable media.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B readonly
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boolean property that is true if the virtual disk is read-only. This
property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sectors
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric property containing the number of disk sectors in the given virtual
disk. This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property that is the name of the virtual disk. This property is
read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B max-size
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric property containing the maximum size of the virtual disk in bytes.
This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBeffective-size\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric property containing the effective size of the virtual disk, in
bytes. The effective size includes  the size of the data file and all
snapshots. The effective size can exceed the maximum size. This property is
read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B creation-time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property containing the date and time that the virtual disk was
created. This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B creation-time-epoch
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric property describing the creation-time property in seconds since the
epoch (seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, Jan. 1, 1970). This property is
read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmodification-time\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property containing the date and time of last modification to
virtual disk. This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmodification-time-epoch\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric property describing the modification-time property in seconds since
the epoch (seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, Jan. 1, 1970). This property is
read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B description
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property that contains the comment given when the virtual disk was
created or cloned. This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property that contains the type of virtual disk:
.BR vmdk ,
.BR vhd ,
.BR vdi ,
or
.BR raw .
This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sparse
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boolean property that is true if the virtual disk is in
.BR sparse
format. This property is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B owner
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String property that contains the user name of the owner of the virtual
disk. This property is editable.
.RE

.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The
.B vdiskadm
subcommands and their arguments are described in the
following subsections.
.SS "\fBvdiskadm create\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm create \fB-s\fR \fIsize\fR [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR],[\fIopt\fR]]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Creates a new virtual disk of the specified size and at the location
specified by
.IR vdname .
If
.I vdname
includes a path to the virtual
disk, the directories that follow from that path will be created during
creation of the virtual disk. This subcommand has the options listed
below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR],[\fIopt\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of virtual disk to be created. The default type is
.BR vmdk .
For
.B vmdk
and
.B vdi
types the default option is
.BR sparse .
For type
.B raw
the default option is
.BR fixed .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Comment that can be attached to virtual disk.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm destroy\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm destroy [\fB-r\fR] \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Destroys the specified virtual disk or snapshot. By default, the destroy
operation fails if the specified virtual disk contains snapshots. This
subcommand has the option listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recursively destroys the virtual disk, including all snapshots associated
with the virtual disk.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm snapshot\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm snapshot \fIvdname\fR@\fIsnapname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Creates a snapshot of the virtual disk with the specified
.IR snapname .
This subcommand has no options.
.SS "\fBvdiskadm rollback\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm rollback [\fB-r\fR] \fIsnapshot\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Roll back the virtual disk to a previous snapshot. When a virtual disk is
rolled back, all data that has changed since the snapshot is discarded, and
the virtual disk reverts to the state at the time of the snapshot. By
default, the command refuses to roll back to a snapshot other than the most
recent one. In order to roll back further, all intermediate snapshots must
be destroyed by specifying the
.B -r
option. This subcommand has the
option listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recursively destroy any snapshots more recent than the one specified.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm clone\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR \fIclone_vdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Creates a clone of the specified snapshot or virtual disk. The clone is
created with the type and option and the size of the virtual disk being
cloned. If
.I clone_vdname
includes a path the directories that flow from
that path will be created during creation of the cloned virtual disk. By
default, a merged clone image is created. This subcommand has the option
listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Comment that can be attached to cloned virtual disk.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm move\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm move \fIvdname\fR \fIdir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Moves a specified virtual disk into the specified directory. The virtual
disk maintains the same name. The new directory must exist. This subcommand
has no options.
.SS "\fBvdiskadm rename\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm rename \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR \fIvdname\fR|\fIsnapshot\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Renames a virtual disk or snapshot. This subcommand has no options.
.SS "\fBvdiskadm list\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm list [\fB-fp\fR]\fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Lists a specified virtual disk and its snapshots. This subcommand has the
options listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gives a list of all files associated with the virtual disk. This list
includes the store file and the extents.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the files in an easily parsable format, prefixing the files with a
label of
.BR file: ,
.BR snapshot: ,
or
.BR store .
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm verify\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm verify \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Returns an error if the virtual disk cannot be recognized or opened by
Solaris xVM. This subcommand has no options.
.SS "\fBvdiskadm prop-get\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm prop-get [\fB-l\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Returns the value of the property for the specified virtual disk. A
property value of
.B all
displays all native and user-defined properties
for the virtual disk. This subcommand has the options listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gives additional property information, such as the writeable status of
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the property being queried and displays the value of the
property. For the property
.BR all ,
the name of the property, a colon, and
a space are displayed before the value of the property.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm prop-set\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm prop-set \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Sets the value of the specified property for the specified virtual disk.
\fIproperty\fR can be a native or a user-defined property, but must be
writable. Can be used to change the value of a property added with the
\fBprop-add\fR subcommand. This subcommand has the option listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the property being set.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm prop-add\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Adds the user-defined property with the specified value to the specified
virtual disk. Returns an error if the property already exists. The
user-defined property name must contain a colon character
.RB ( : ).
This
subcommand has the option listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the property being added.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm prop-del\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm prop-del \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Deletes a user-defined property from the specified virtual disk. This
subcommand has the option listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the property being deleted.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm import\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm import [-fnpqm] [-x \fItype\fR] -d file|zvol|dsk \e
[-t \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Creates a new virtual disk using data from a file or block device. The file
may be in
.BR vdi ,
.BR vhd ,
.BR vmdk ,
or
.B raw
format. A block
device is always assumed to be in raw format. This subcommand has the
following options.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns a list of files that will be used in the import process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show output from import without actually running the import.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays files in an easily parsable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run in quiet mode giving no output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Move the imported file to virtual disk without copying the data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of virtual disk data being imported. If \fBvdiskadm\fR
is unable to detect the imported file type,
.B -x
must be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d file\fR|\fBzvol\fR|\fBdsk\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File or block device containing data to be imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of virtual disk to be created on import. The default
type is
.BR vmdk .
For
.BR vmdk ,
.BR vdi ,
and
.B vhd
types the
default
.I opt
is
.BR sparse .
For type
.B raw
the default
.IR opt
is
.BR fixed .
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm export\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm export -x \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR] -d file|zvol|dsk \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Exports data from a virtual disk to a file or block device. This subcommand
has the following options.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of virtual disk data being exported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d file\fR|\fBzvol\fR|\fBdsk\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File or block device receiving data being exported.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm convert\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm convert [-t \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] \fIvdname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Converts a virtual disk into a different type virtual disk. This subcommand
has the following option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of virtual disk to be created upon conversion. The
default type is
.BR vmdk .
For
.BR vmdk ,
.BR vdi ,
and
.B vhd
types
the default
.I opt
is
.BR sparse .
For type
.B raw
the default
\fIopt\fR is \fBfixed\fR.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm translate\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm translate [-i \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]] -I \fIinput_file\fR \e
-x \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR] -d \fIoutput_file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Translate data from one virtual disk data type to another without creating
a virtual disk. This subcommand has the following options.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the input type of virtual disk data being translated. If
\fBvdiskadm\fR is unable to detect the input file type, \fB-i\fR must be
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-I\fR \fIinput_file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File or block device containing data being translated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fItype\fR[:\fIopt\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the output type of virtual disk data being translated. For
.BR vmdk ,
.BR vdi ,
and
.B vhd
types the default
.I opt
is
.BR sparse .
For type
.B raw
the default
.I opt
is
.BR fixed .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File or block device receiving data being translated. \fIoutput_file\fR
must not exist. The file will be created during translation.
.RE

.SS "\fBvdiskadm help\fR"
.sp
.in +2
.nf
vdiskadm help [\fIcommand\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Displays a general or command-specific help message. This subcommand has
only the command name optional argument.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Creating a \fBvmdk\fR Sparse File
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a virtual disk named
.B disk1
of size 8 GB
in the directory
.BR /guests/disks .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm create -s 8g -t vmdk:sparse /guests/disks/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Creating a Snapshot
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a snapshot of the virtual disk located at
.BR /guests/disks/disk1 .
The snapshot is named
.BR install .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm snapshot /guests/disks/disk1@install\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Creating and Destroying Snapshots
.sp
.LP
The following commands create two snapshots, named
.B install
and
\fBbfu\fR, of the virtual disk located at
.BR /guests/disks/disk1 .
The
third command destroys the newly created snapshot
.BR install .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm snapshot /guests/disks/disk1@install\fR
# \fBvdiskadm snapshot /guests/disks/disk1@bfu\fR
# \fBvdiskadm destroy /guests/disks/disk1@install\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Rolling Back a Virtual Disk
.sp
.LP
The following command reverts the contents of the virtual disk to the
snapshot named
.BR install ,
deleting all intermediate snapshots.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm rollback -r /guests/disks/disk1@install\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Listing a Virtual Disk and Snapshots
.sp
.LP
The following command lists all of the images associated with the virtual
disk
.BR /guests/disks/disk1 .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm list /guests/disks/disk1\fR
disk1@install
disk1@bfu
disk1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Creating a Clone
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a new virtual disk that is a coalesced copy
of the virtual disk
.BR /guests/disks/disk1 .
The clone is created in the
same format (that is,
.BR vmdk:sparse )
as the original virtual disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm clone /guests/disks/disk1 /guests/clone/clone_disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Adding a User-defined Property
.sp
.LP
The following command adds a user-defined property to the virtual disk and
assigns it the specified value. This property name was chosen to represent
the source and requirements of this virtual disk data using the required
colon to delineate the fields.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm prop-add -p com.sun:required-nic=2 /guests/disks/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8\fR Importing Existing \fBvmdk\fR Format File
.sp
.LP
The following command takes an existing
.B vmdk
format file and imports
it to a virtual disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm import -d /downloads/appliance.vmdk /guests/import/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9\fR Importing \fBvmdk\fR File and Converting to \fBvhd\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command takes an existing
.B vmdk
format file and, upon
import, converts it to a \fBvhd\fR-type virtual disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm import -d /downloads/appliance.vmdk -t vhd \e\fR
\fB/guests/import/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10\fR Importing Data from \fBzvol\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command imports virtual disk data from a
.B zvol
and, upon
import, converts it to a \fBvmdk:fixed\fR type virtual disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm import -d /dev/zvol/dsk/pool1/disk1 -t vmdk:fixed \e\fR
\fB/guests/import/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11\fR Exporting Data to Block Device
.sp
.LP
The following command takes an existing virtual disk and, upon export,
converts it to a disk slice, of
.B raw
type.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm export -d /dev/dsk/c0t1d0s3 -x raw /guests/disks/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 12\fR Converting Virtual Disk Type
.sp
.LP
The following command takes an existing virtual disk and converts it (in
place) to a different format type.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm convert -t vdi:fixed /guests/disks/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 13\fR Translating Data from One Type to Another
.sp
.LP
The following command translates data from a virtual disk format file to
raw data written to a
.B zvol
without creating a virtual disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvdiskadm translate -I /downloads/appliance.vmdk -x raw \e\fR
\fB-d /dev/zvol/dsk/pool1/disk1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvdisk
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR virsh (1M),
.BR virt-install (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR xVM (5)
