'\" te
.\" Copyright 2005-2006 Red Hat, Inc. Jeremy Katz (katzj@redhat.com) Option handling added by Andrew Puch (apuch@redhat.com).
.\" This manual page is based in part on material found at fedoraproject.org.
.\"
.\" This manual page is based in part on material found at fedoraproject.org.
.\" This software may be freely redistributed under the terms of the
.\" GNU general public license.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH virt-install 1M "4 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
virt-install \- install guest operating system on xVM system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/virt-install\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B virt-install
program enables you to install a guest operating
system on a machine running Solaris xVM.
.sp
.LP
.B virt-install
allows you to enter information about a guest as a set
of command-line options that enable you to specify the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Name of your guest domain. This name serves as the label of the guest
operating system and will be the name of the file that stores the guest's
configuration. For network-based installs, the name of the domain must match
its real hostname.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Amount of RAM to be allocated to the guest, in MB. Solaris domains should
use 512MB minimum.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Path to the disk image of the guest. This path is exported as an entire
disk to your guest. It is on the xVM control domain and can be to a physical
disk, a flat file, or any device that provides a block device interface; for
example, a ZFS volume or a Solaris Volume Manager volume.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the path specified in the preceding bullet does not already exist, the
size, in GB, of the virtual disk for your guest.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You must choose whether to enable graphics support for the domain. Note
that paravirtualized Solaris domains do not currently support a graphical
console in this manner.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
URI for the location of the installation software. This can be an NFS path,
or the path to a local directory or ISO. Some operating systems do not yet
support ISO installs. Some operating systems require that the install host
be fully qualified (for example,
.BR my.nfs.server.com )
for the install to
work. Examples of acceptable installation paths are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nfs:my.nfs.server.com:/home/install/test/tree
/export/solarisdvd.iso
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.sp
.LP
After entering required information, installation starts. If you enabled
graphics, a Virtual Network Computing (VNC) window opens and presents the
graphical installer. If graphics are not enabled, the text installer is
displayed.
.sp
.LP
You can connect to the graphical console by finding the correct display
with the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBvirsh vncdisplay \fIdom-name\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.and then running:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBvncviewer localhost:\fId\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.where
.I
d
is the display returned by the preceding
.B
virsh vncdisplay
command.
.sp
.LP
Autoconfiguration data (see the
.B --autocf
option, below) is presented
to the guest as a floppy device. For Solaris, this can be a UFS or PCFS file
system image containing
.BR sysidcfg (4)
and Jumpstart profile data.
.sp
.LP
To run
.BR virt-install ,
you must become superuser or assume the Primary
Administrator role.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--autocf\fR=\fIlocation\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies location of autoconfiguration data for the guest.
.sp
For fully virtualized guests installing from an ISO file or DVD,
.I location
specifies the pathname of a disk image to be presented to the
guest as the floppy device
.BR fda .
The following is the path to a local
filename containing a floppy image:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/path/to/guest/autocf.img
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This option is ignored for fully virtualized guests installing over a
network using PXE. Such a guest will retrieve any autoconfiguration data
over the network. For paravirtualized guests, support for this option is
guest-specific.
.sp
For Solaris paravirtualized guests installing over NFS, this option allows
you to specify the NFS pathname to a directory containing a
.BR sysidcfg (4)
file along with a Solaris Jumpstart profile. The following
is the path to a NFS directory containing Solaris autoconfiguration data:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nfs:netinstall:/export/guests/guest.autocf
.fi
.in -2
.sp

For OpenSolaris paravirtualized guests installing using an OpenSolaris AI
.RB "(Automated Installer) server using the" " opensolaris os-variant"
flag, specify a set of comma-separated name/value pairs used by AI. These
are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
install_service=[\fIinstall_service_name\fR]
install_media=[\fIHTTP server containing AI image\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

At present, only
.B install_service
is required.
.B install_media
can
be used to override the
.B install_media
path specified in the
.B --location
option (see below). Additional name/value pairs can be
appended should the AI server require them.
.sp
At such time as the OpenSolaris AI supports the ability of clients to
self-discover the AI install service, an empty string should be used for
.B install_service
to indicate an AI install is desired.
.sp
For fully virtualized guests (HVM domains), use the
.B --pxe
argument to
perform AI installs.
.sp
See EXAMPLES for an example of the use of the OpenSolaris AI.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-b\fR
.IR bridge ,
\fB--bridge\fR=\fIbridge\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge to which to connect the network interface. If you do not specify a
bridge, the system attempts to determine the default. This should be the
name of the interface in the control domain through which to route the
domain's networking traffic, for example,
.BR bge0 .
This option is
.RB "obsolete. Use the " -w / --network " option, instead."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR
.IR cdrom ,
\fB--cdrom\fR=\fIcdrom\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File to use as a virtual CD-ROM device for fully virtualized guests. This
option works with HVM domains and is ignored with paravirtualized domains.
It can be path to an ISO image, or to a CD-ROM device. It can also be a URL
from which to fetch or access a minimal boot ISO image. The URLs take the
same format as described for the
.B --location
argument. If this option
is omitted then either the
.B --location
argument must be entered, to
specify a location for the kernel and
.BR initrd ,
or the
.BR --pxe
option used, to install from the network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --check-cpu
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check that VCPUs do not exceed physical CPUs and warn if they do.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--connect\fR=\fIURI\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connect to hypervisor at
.IR URI .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--cpuset\fR=\fIcpuset\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify which physical CPUs the guest can use.
.I cpuset
is a
comma-separated list of numbers, which can be specified in ranges. For
example:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0,2,3,5
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Use processors 0, 2, 3, and 5
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1-3,5,6-8
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Use processors 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -d ,
.B --debug
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display debugging information. The debugging information is stored in
.BR $HOME/.virtinst/virt-install.log ,
even if this option is omitted. In
this path,
.B $HOME
is the home directory of the user invoking
.BR virt-install ,
such as
.B /
or
.BR /root .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--disk\fR \fBpath=\fI\&.\|.\|.\fR [\fIoptions\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a disk to attach to the guest domain. This is a comma-separated
list of options, which must start with the
.B path
argument. For
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
--disk path=/guest/root.img,sparse=true
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The available argument and options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpath=\fI\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path to the file, disk partition, or logical volume to use as the backing
store for the guest's virtual disk.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B perms=ro
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The disk should be read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B device=disk|cdrom|floppy
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The disk should be presented as a normal hard disk, CD-ROM, or floppy
disk.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsize=\fI\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Size of the disk in Gb, if it does not yet exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sparse=true|false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Where appropriate, mark the disk as sparse or fully-allocated.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.IR pathname ,
\fB--file\fR=\fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path to the file, disk partition, or logical volume to use as the backing
store for the guest's virtual disk. If the path does not exist, then
.B --file-size
option should also be specified, allowing the disk to be
created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -h ,
.B --help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display list of
.B virt-install
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --import
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Skip the OS installation process, and build a guest around an existing disk
image. The device used for booting is the first device specified by means of
the
.B --disk
or
.B --file
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR
.IR keymap ,
\fB--keymap\fR=\fIkeymap\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request that the virtual console be configured to run with a non-English
keyboard layout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR
.IR location ,
\fB--location\fR=\fIlocation\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Installation source for paravirtualized guest. Fully virtualized guests
must use either
.B --location
to specify a kernel and
.B initrd
or the
.B --cdrom
option to specify an ISO/CDROM image. The
.I location
argument can take the forms, \fBnfs:\fIhost\fR:/\fIpath\fR, or a file
system path in the control domain, as described above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --livecd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Treat the CD-ROM media as a live CD.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-m\fR
.IR mac_addr ,
\fB--mac\fR=\fImac_addr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed MAC address for the guest. If this parameter is omitted,
or the value
.B random
is specified, a suitable address will be randomly
generated. For xVM virtual machines it is required that the first 3 pairs in
the MAC address be the sequence
.BR 00:16:3e .
This option could be used
when performing PXE or NFS-based installations of Solaris guests. This
.RB "option is obsolete. Use the " -w / --network " option, instead."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR
.IR name ,
\fB--name\fR=\fIname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the new guest virtual machine instance. This must be unique among
all guests known to the hypervisor on this machine, including those not
currently active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --noacpi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) for fully
virtualized guest. Overrides configuration setting stored in systems
specified by
.B --os-type
and
.B --os-variant
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --noapic
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC) for fully
virtualized guest. Overrides configuration setting stored in systems
specified by
.B --os-type
and
.B --os-variant
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --noautoconsole
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not automatically try to connect to the guest console. The default
behavior is to launch a VNC client to display the graphical console, or to
run the
.B "virsh console"
command to display the text console. Use of this
option disables this behavior.
.sp
Use of this option should be combined with the
.B --wait
option, as
described below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --nodisks
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request a virtual machine without any local disk storage, typically used
for running "Live CD" images or installing to network storage (iSCSI or NFS
root). This disables all interactive prompts for disk setup.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --nographics
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable all interactive prompts for the guest virtual console. No graphical
console will be allocated for the guest. A text-based console will always be
available on the first serial port (or equivalent paravirtualised console
device).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --nonetworks
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not create network interfaces for the guest.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --nonsparse
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request creation of a non-sparse file for the guest virtual disk. Note that
use of this option causes guest creation to be significantly slower than
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --noreboot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not automatically reboot the guest domain after the first stage of
installation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--os-type\fR=\fIos_type\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Optimize the guest configuration for a type of operating system. This
option attempts to pick the most suitable ACPI and APIC settings, select
optimally supported mouse drivers, and generally accommodate other operating
system peculiarities. See "OS Types and OS Variants", below for a list of
acceptable values.
.sp
For optimal guest operating system performance, you should specify the
.B --os-type
and
.B --os-variant
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--os-variant\fR=\fIos_variant\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The OS variant for fully virtualized guests. See "OS Types and OS
Variants", below for a list of acceptable values.
.sp
For optimal guest operating system performance, you should specify the
.B --os-type
and
.B --os-variant
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -p ,
.B --paravirt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that guest is paravirtualized. If the host supports both
paravirtualization and full virtualization, and neither this parameter nor
the
.B --hvm
option are specified, this will be prompted for
interactively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --pxe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the PXE boot protocol to load the initial ramdisk and kernel for
starting the guest installation process. If this option is omitted, then
either the
.B --location
or
.B --cdrom
options must be entered, to
specify a location for the kernel and
.BR initrd .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR
.IR mem_amount ,
\fB--ram\fR=\fImem_amount\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Memory to allocate for guest instance, in megabytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.IR filesize ,
\fB--file-size\fR=\fIfilesize\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Size of the file to create for the guest virtual disk, if the path
specified with the
.B --file
does not already exist. The \fIfilesize\fR
is specified in gigabytes, with fractional numbers allowed. The storage for
the file will not be pre-allocated unless the
.B --nonsparse
option is
also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --sdl
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL) for graphics support. This option works
with some guest domains, including HVM, but not with Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --sound
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use sound device emulation. Does not work on Solars xVM.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR
.IR UUID ,
\fB--uuid\fR=\fIUUID\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies UUID, as a 32-digit hexadecimal number, for the guest. if no UUID
is specified, the system generates a random UUID. If you enter a UUID, keep
in mind that it is intended to be a globally unique value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -v ,
.B --hvm
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the guest is a Hardware-assisted Virtual Machine (HVM).
Requests the use of full virtualization, if both paravirtualization and full
virtualization are available on the host. This parameter might not be
available if connecting to a hypervisor on a machine without hardware
virtualization support.
.sp
This guest should be fully virtualized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--vcpus\fR=\fIvcpus\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of Virtual (VCPUs) to configure for your guest.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --vnc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use Virtual Network Computing (VNC) for graphics support. This option works
with HVM domains but not with paravirtualized domains. Unless the
.B --vncport
parameter is also provided, the VNC server will run on the
first free port number at 5900 or above. The actual VNC display allocated
can be obtained using the
.B vncdisplay
subcommand to
.BR virsh (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--vncport\fR=\fIvncport\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request a permanent, statically assigned port number for the guest VNC
console. Use of this option is discouraged as another guest might
automatically choose to run on the specified port, creating a conflict.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fR
.IR property_list ,
\fB--network\fR=\fIproperty_list\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes a virtual interface by means of a list of property-value pairs,
each pair separated by a comma. Supported properties are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI bridge= bridge
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge to which to connect the virtual interface. If you do not specify a
bridge, the system attempts to determine the default. This should be the
name of the interface in the control domain through which to route the
domain's networking traffic, for example,
.BR bge0 .
This property makes
.RB "the " -b / --bridge " option obsolete."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI mac= mac_addr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed MAC address for the guest. If this parameter is omitted,
or the value
.B RANDOM
is specified, a suitable address will be randomly
generated. For Solaris xVM virtual machines it is required that the first
three pairs in the MAC address be the sequence
.BR 00:16:3e .
This property
is required when performing PXE or NFS-based installations of Solaris
.RB "guests. This property makes the " -m / --mac " option obsolete."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI capped-bandwidth= bandwidth
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets bandwidth of this interface. Bandwidth should be specified as an
integer with one of the scale suffixes 
.RB ( K ,
.BR M ,
or
.B G
for
Kbps, Mbps, or Gbps, respectively). Bandwidth will be rounded  up to 1.2M,
if the input is smaller than that figure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI vlanid= vid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets VLAN ID of this interface to
.IR vid .
.RE

If this option is omitted, a single NIC will be created in the guest. If
there is a bridge device in the host with a physical interface enslaved,
this interface will be used for connectivity. This option can be specified
multiple times to setup more than one NIC. Do not mix it with any one of the
\fB-b\fR/\fB--bridge\fR and \fB-m\fR/\fB--mac\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--wait\fR=\fInum_minutes\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a VNC viewer could not be launched for a graphical installation, and the
guest is a Windows domain,
.B virt-install
waits indefinitely for the
guest to finish installation.
.sp
For the domain to correctly reboot during install,
.B virt-install
must
stay running until installation is complete. This happens by default when
.B virt-install
connects to the console. If the
.B --noautoconsole
option is used, or you need to disconnect from the console, use this option
to keep
.B virt-install
running. A value of
.B -1
will wait
indefinitely. A value of
.B 0
will exit immediately (and thus implies
.BR --noautoconsole ).
.sp
It is recommended that scripts use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
--wait=-1 --noautoconsole
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&.\|.\|.as needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR
.IR extra_args ,
\fB--extra-args\fR=\fIextra_args\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When installing paravirtualized guests, specifies additional arguments to
pass to the installer.
.RE

.SS "OS Types and OS Variants"
.sp
.LP
The following are the valid OS type and OS variant values for
.B --os-type
and
.B --os-variant
options described above.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
os-type  os-variant
-------  ----------
linux (Linux 2.x series)
         rhel2.1
         rhel3
         rhel4
         rhel5
         fedora5
         fedora6
         fedora7
         fedora8
         fedora9
         fedora10
         fedora11
         ubuntuhardy
         ubuntuintrepid
         ubuntujaunty
         sles10
         debianEtch
         debianLenny
         generic24
         generic26

windows (Microsoft Windows 9x or later)
         winxp
         winxp64
         win2k
         win2k3
         win2k8
         vista

unix (Traditional UNIX BSD or SysV derivatives)
         freebsd6
         freebsd7
         openbsd4

solaris (Solaris 9 or later)
         solaris9
         solaris10
         opensolaris

other (Not in one of groups above)
         msdos
         netware4
         netware5
         netware6
         generic
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For Windows 7, use
.BR vista .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Installing Solaris onto a Local Disk from an ISO
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a paravirtualized Solaris guest from an ISO
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install --name solaris2 --ram 1024 --nographics \e
  --file /dev/md/dsk/solaris2-disk \e
  --os-type=solaris os-variant=solaris10 \e
  --location /export/isos/nv75-dvd.iso\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Installing Microsoft Windows
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a Microsoft Windows guest using a local file
as a root disk.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install --hvm --name windows1 --ram 1024 \e
  --cdrom //en_winxp_pro_with_sp2.iso \e
  --file /guests/windows1-disk --file-size 10 \e
  --os-type=windows os-variant=winxp \e
  --vnc\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Installing Paravirtualized Solaris Guest from an NFS
Server
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a Solaris paravirtualized xVM guest, 500 MB
of RAM, 6 GB of disk, from an NFS server, in text-only mode:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install \e
    --paravirt \e
    --name demo \e
    --ram 500 \e
    --file /export/guests/demo/images/demo.img \e
    --file-size 6 \e
    --nographics \e
    --mac=00:16:3e:2f:8a:1a \e
    --os-type=solaris os-variant=opensolaris \e
    --location nfs:netinstall:/export/s10u6/combined.s10x_u6wos/latest \e
    --autocf=nfs:netinstall:/export/guests/demo/autocf\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Installing xVM Guest Using ZFS
.BR zvol
.sp
.LP
The following command installs an xVM guest, using a ZFS
.BR zvol ,
booting from the host CD-ROM, using the VNC server/viewer:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install \e
       --hvm --name demo \e
       --ram 500 \e
       --file /dev/zvol/dsk/guests/root \e
       --vnc \e
       --hvm \e
       --os-type=solaris os-variant=opensolaris \e
       --autocf=/export/guests/demo/images/autocf.img \e
       --cdrom /dev/dsk/c2t0d0s2\fR

\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Installing Paravirtualized Guest over HTTP
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a paravirtualized Fedora guest domain over
HTTP using the text installer:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install -n demo -x 'console=hvc0' --paravirt \e
-f /dev/zvol/dsk/guests/root \e
-l http://mirror.cc.vt.edu/pub/fedora/linux/releases/8/Fedora/x86_64/os/ \e
--os-type=linux os-variant=fedora8 \e
-r 512 --nographics\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Guest over NFS
.sp
.LP
The following sequence of commands installs a Red Hat Enterprise Linux
guest over NFS using the text installer:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount -F hsfs /rhel.iso /mnt\fR
# \fBshare -o ro /mnt\fR
# \fBvirt-install -n pv-rhel -r 1024 -l nfs:mydom0:/mnt \e
 --os-type=linux os-variant=rhel4 \e
 -f /dev/zvol/dsk/pv-rhel.zvol -p --nographics\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Installing with Kickstart Automation
.sp
.LP
The following command installs a RedHat guest using the media in the
.B dom0
CD-ROM, utilizing
.B kickstart
to automate the installation
process.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install \e
        --name rhat \e
        --ram 500 \e
        --file /dev/zvol/dsk/rhat.zvol \e
        --paravirt \e
        --location /dev/dsk/c2t0d0s2 \e
        --os-type=linux os-variant=rhel5 \e
        --extra-args "ks=/export/install/rhat/ks.cfg"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 8
Installing an HVM Solaris Domain Using Network Boot
.sp
.LP
The following commands install HVM Solaris domains using network boot
(PXE).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install -n pxe-domu -r 1024 --hvm --mac 00:16:3e:2f:8a:1a \e
--os-type=solaris --os-variant=opensolaris \e
-f /dev/zvol/dsk/guests/root \e
--vnc --pxe --vcpus=4\fR

# \fBvirt-install -n domu-221 -r 1024 --hvm \e
--mac `~johnlev/bin/maca domu-221` --os-type=solaris  \e
--os-variant=opensolaris -f /iscsi/nevada-hvm --vnc --pxe --vcpus=4\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 9
Installing with OpenSolaris AI
.sp
.LP
The following command installs an OpenSolaris guest using the
.B x86_install
AI install service from a specified install media.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install --name osol \e
--location http://10.0.0.1:5555/space/images/osol_111b \e
--ram 1024 \e
--file /rpool/guests/osol.raw \e
--os-variant=opensolaris \e
--autocf install_service=myservice\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command installs an OpenSolaris guest, under conditions in
which the guest is able to self-discover its install service:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-install --name osol \e
--location http://10.0.0.1:5555/space/images/osol_111b \e
--ram 1024 \e
--file /rpool/guests/osol.raw \e
--os-variant=opensolaris \e
--autocf ""\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxvmu
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR virsh (1M),
.BR virt-clone (1M),
.BR xend (1M),
.BR xentop (1M),
.BR xenstored (1M),
.BR xm (1M),
.BR sysidcfg (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR xVM (5)
