'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vmstat 1M "23 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vmstat \- report virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvmstat\fR [\fB-cipqsS\fR] [\fB-T\fR u | d] [\fIdisks\fR] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBvmstat\fR reports virtual memory statistics regarding kernel thread,
virtual memory, disk, trap, and
.B CPU
activity.
.sp
.LP
On
.B MP
(multi-processor) systems,
.B vmstat
averages the number of
\fBCPUs\fR into the output. For per-processor statistics, see
.BR mpstat (1M).
.sp
.LP
\fBvmstat\fR only supports statistics for certain devices. For more general
system statistics, use
.BR sar (1),
.BR iostat (1M),
or
.BR sar (1M).
.sp
.LP
Without options,
.B vmstat
displays a one-line summary of the virtual
memory activity since the system was booted.
.sp
.LP
During execution of the kernel status command, the
.B state
of the
system can change. If relevant, a state change message is included in the
\fBvmstat\fR output, in one of the following forms:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<<device added: sd0>>
<<device removed: sd0>>
<<processors added: 1, 3>>
<<processors removed: 1, 3>>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See\fR  for device naming conventions for disks.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Report cache flushing statistics. This option is obsolete, and no longer
meaningful. This option might be removed in a future version of Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Report the number of interrupts per device.
.I count
and
.IR interval
does not apply to the
.B -i
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Report paging activity in details. This option will display the following,
respectively:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B epi
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Executable page-ins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B epo
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Executable page-outs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBepf\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Executable page-frees.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B api
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Anonymous page-ins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B apo
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Anonymous page-outs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBapf\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Anonymous page-frees.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfpi\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
File system page-ins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfpo\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
File system page-outs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfpf\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
File system page-frees.
.RE

When executed in a
.B zone
and if the pools facility is active, all of
the above only report actitivity on the processors in the processor set of
the
.BR zone "'s pool."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Suppress messages related to state changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Display the total number of various system events since boot. \fIcount\fR
and
.I interval
does not apply to the
.B -s
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Report on swapping rather than paging activity. This option will change two
fields in
.BR vmstat "'s ``paging'' display: rather than the ``re'' and"
``mf'' fields,
.B vmstat
will report ``si'' (swap-ins) and ``so''
(swap-outs).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T u\fR |  \fBd\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specify
.B u
for a printed representation of the internal representation
of time. See
.BR time (2).
Specify
.B d
for standard date format. See
.BR date (1).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I count
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the number of times that the statistics are repeated. \fIcount\fR
does not apply to the
.B -i
and
.B -s
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I disks
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies which disks are to be given priority in the output (only four
disks fit on a line). Common disk names are
.BR id ,
.BR sd ,
.BR xd ,
or
\fBxy,\fR followed by a number (for example, \fBsd2\fR,
.BR xd0 ,
and so
forth).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interval
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the last number of seconds over which
.B vmstat
summarizes
activity. This number of seconds repeats forever.
.I interval
does not
apply to the
.B -i
and
.B -s
options.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBvmstat\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command displays a summary of what the system is doing every
five seconds.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBvmstat 5\fR


kthr   memory          page             disk      faults        cpu
r b w swap  free re mf pi p fr de sr s0 s1 s2 s3  in  sy  cs us sy id
0 0 0 11456 4120 1  41 19 1  3  0  2  0  4  0  0  48 112 130  4 14 82
0 0 1 10132 4280 0   4 44 0  0  0  0  0 23  0  0 211 230 144  3 35 62
0 0 1 10132 4616 0   0 20 0  0  0  0  0 19  0  0 150 172 146  3 33 64
0 0 1 10132 5292 0   0  9 0  0  0  0  0 21  0  0 165 105 130  1 21 78
1 1 1 10132 5496 0   0  5 0  0  0  0  0 23  0  0 183  92 134  1 20 79
1 0 1 10132 5564 0   0 25 0  0  0  0  0 18  0  0 131 231 116  4 34 62
1 0 1 10124 5412 0   0 37 0  0  0  0  0 22  0  0 166 179 118  1 33 67
1 0 1 10124 5236 0   0 24 0  0  0  0  0 14  0  0 109 243 113  4 56 39
^C

example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields of
.BR vmstat "'s display are"

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B kthr
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Report the number of kernel threads in each of the three following
states:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
the number of kernel threads in run queue
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
the number of blocked kernel threads that are waiting for resources
\fBI/O,\fR paging, and so forth
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
the number of swapped out lightweight processes (LWPs) that are waiting for
processing resources to finish.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B memory
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Report on usage of virtual and real memory.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B swap
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
available swap space (Kbytes)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfree\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
size of the free list (Kbytes)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B page
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Report information about page faults and paging activity. The information
on each of the following activities is given in units per second.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B re
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
page reclaims \(em but see the \fB-S\fR option for how this field is
modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmf\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
minor faults \(em but see the \fB-S\fR option for how this field is
modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pi
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
kilobytes paged in
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B po
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
kilobytes paged out
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfr\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
kilobytes freed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B de
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
anticipated short-term memory shortfall (Kbytes)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sr
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
pages scanned by clock algorithm
.RE

When executed in a
.B zone
and if the pools facility is active, all of
the above (except for "de") only report activity on the processors in the
processor set of the
.BR zone "'s pool."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disk
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Report the number of disk operations per second. There are slots for up to
four disks, labeled with a single letter and number. The letter indicates
the type of disk (s =
.BR SCSI ,
i =
.BR IPI ,
and so forth); the number
is the logical unit number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfaults\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Report the trap/interrupt rates (per second).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B in
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
interrupts
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sy
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
system calls
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cs
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fBCPU\fR context switches
.RE

When executed in a
.B zone
and if the pools facility is active, all of
the above only report actitivity on the processors in the processor set of
the
.BR zone "'s pool."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cpu
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Give a breakdown of percentage usage of
.B CPU
.RB "time. On" " MP"
systems, this is an average across all processors.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B us
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
user time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sy
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
system time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B id
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
idle time
.RE

When executed in a
.B zone
and if the pools facility is active, all of
the above only report actitivity on the processors in the processor set of
the
.BR zone "'s pool."
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR date (1),
.BR sar (1),
.BR iostat (1M),
.BR mpstat (1M),
.BR sar (1M),
.BR time (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The sum of CPU utilization might vary slightly from 100 because of rounding
errors in the production of a percentage figure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -c
option (Report cache flushing statistics) is not supported in
this release.
