'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vrrpd 1M "22 Oct 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vrrpd \- VRRP daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/vrrpd\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
svc:/network/vrrp:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBvrrpd\fR is the system daemon program that handles the administrative
events for the VRRP routers. It is controlled through the service management
facility (SMF) service instance:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/vrrp:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The daemon should not be invoked directly. It does not constitute an
administrative nor a programming interface. The administrative interface for
managing VRRP routers is \fBvrrpadm\fR(1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The daemon has no options.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvrrpr
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBvrrpadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
