'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vrrpadm 1M "14 Oct 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vrrpadm \- VRRP administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBcreate-router\fR \fB-V\fR \fIvrid\fR \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR \fB-A\fR \fIinet\fR | \fIinet6\fR
        [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIadv_interval\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIflags\fR] \fIrouter_name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBdelete-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBdisable-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBenable-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBmodify-router\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIadv_interval\fR]
        [\fB-o\fR \fIflags\fR] [\fIrouter_name\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvrrpadm\fR \fBshow-router\fR [\fB-P\fR | \fB-x\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,.\|.\|.]] [\fIrouter_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B vrrpadm
command is used to administer the VRRP (Virtual Router
Redundancy Protocol) service in a system.
.sp
.LP
VRRP specifies an election protocol that dynamically assigns responsibility
for a virtual router to one of the VRRP routers within a LAN. At a given
moment, only one VRRP router controls the IPv4 or IPv6 virtual address(es)
associated with a virtual router (known as the
.BR master ),
and forwards
packets sent to these IP addresses. The election process provides dynamic
failover of the forwarding responsibility should the master become
unavailable.
.sp
.LP
Each
.B vrrpadm
subcommand operates on a VRRP router, which is
identified by a name given by the administrator. VRRP routers with the same
VRID and address family within a LAN comprise a virtual router, which
protects a set of virtual IP addresses.
.sp
.LP
A system can have multiple VRRP routers; each belongs to a different
virtual router.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported. Note that all subcommands but
\fBshow-router\fR require the \fBsolaris.network.vrrp\fR authorization. The
\fBshow-router\fR subcommand does not require special authorizations.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "vrrpadm create-router"
.B -V
.I vrid
.B -l
.I link
\fB-A\fR \fIinet\fR | \fIinet6\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-i\fR
\fIadv_interval\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIflags\fR] \fIrouter_name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a VRRP router with a specified configuration.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.I inet
|
.IR inet6 ,
\fB--address_family\fR=\fIinet\fR |
.I inet6
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Address family. Either IPv4 or IPv6.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIadv_interval\fR,
\fB--adv_interval\fR=\fIadv_interval\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The advertisement interval in milliseconds. Default is
.B 1000
(one
second). The valid interval range is 10-40950.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The data link on which the VRRP router is configured. This determines the
LAN this VRRP router is running in. The data-link can be a physical link, a
VLAN, or an aggregation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.IR flags ,
\fB--flags\fR=\fIflags\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The preempt and accept modes, delimited by a comma. Values can be:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B preempt
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B un_preempt
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B accept
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B noaccept
.RE
By default both modes are set to true.
.sp
The
.B preempt
mode controls whether an enabled higher priority backup
router preempts a lower priority master router. If
.B preempt
mode is
true, then the preemption is allowed; otherwise, preemption is prohibited.
Note that the
.B preempt
mode must be true if the VRRP router is the
owner of the virtual IP addresses.
.sp
The
.B accept
mode controls the local packet acceptance of the virtual
IP addresses. If
.B accept
mode is true, the master must accept packets
sent to the virtual IP addresses. If
.B accept
mode is false, the master
does not accept those packets, although it does respond to ARP requests or
ND Solicitations and Advertisement for those non-accepted virtual IP
addresses. It also must forward packets for the router specified in this
subcommand. Note that
.B accept
mode must be true if the VRRP router is
the owner of the virtual IP addresses. An example of syntax for this
option:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-o preempt,no_accept
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR, \fB--priority\fR=\fIpriority\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The priority of the specified VRRP router used in master selection. The
higher the value, the greater the possibility the router is selected as the
master.
.sp
The default value is 255, which indicates the specified VRRP router is the
IP Address Owner and owns all the virtual IP addresses. An IP Address Owner
will respond to the packets addressed to one of the virtual IP addresses for
ICMP pings, TCP connections, and so forth.
.sp
The range 1-254 is available for VRRP routers backing up a virtual router.
Master selection is weighted toward the VRRP router with the higher
priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-V\fR \fIvrid\fR, \fB--VRID\fR=\fIvrid\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The virtual router identifier (VRID). Together with the address family, it
identifies a virtual router within a LAN.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I router_name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of a VRRP router. This name is used to identify a VRRP router in
other
.B vrrpadm
subcommands.
.sp
The maximum length of a valid router name is 31 characters. Legal
characters are alphanumeric (a-z, A-Z, 0-9) and the underscore ('_').
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvrrpadm delete-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the VRRP router identified by
.IR router_name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvrrpadm disable-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the virtual router identified by
.IR router_name .
Once the router
is disabled, it will stop participating in the master selection process in
the virtual router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvrrpadm enable-router\fR \fIrouter_name\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Re-enable the virtual router identified by
.I router_name
that was
disabled. The router will resume participating in the master selection
process in the virtual router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvrrpadm modify-router\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIadv_interval\fR]
        [\fB-o\fR \fIflags\fR] [\fIrouter_name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the configuration of the VRRP router identified by
.IR router_name .
Only the priority, the advertisement interval, the
preempt mode, and the accept mode can be modified.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR, \fB--priority\fR=\fIpriority\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The new priority of this VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIadv_interval\fR,
\fB--adv_interval\fR=\fIadv_interval\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The new advertisement interval.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.IR flags ,
\fB--flags\fR=\fIflags\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The new preempt and accept modes. Either one or both can be specified. If
both are specified, they are delimited by a comma. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-o preempt,no_accept
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvrrpadm show-router\fR [\fB-P\fR | \fB-x\fR] [\fB-p\fR]
[\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,.\|.\|.]] [\fIrouter_name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the information for the VRRP router identified by
.IR router_name .
If no
.I router_name
is specified, display information
for all the VRRP routers on the system.
.sp
By default (with no options), the following fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VRID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VRID of the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LINK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The data link on which the VRRP router is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AF
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
he address family of the VRRP router, either
.B IPv4
or
.BR IPv6 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRIO
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The priority of this VRRP router used in master selection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ADV_INTV
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The advertisement interval, in milliseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STATE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current state of the VRRP router,
.B INIT
.RB (Initialize), " BACK"
(Backup), or
.B MAST
(Master).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MODE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of flags associated with the VRRP router. Possible values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The router has been enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Preempt mode is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Accept mode is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B o
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Virtual address owner.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VNIC
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VRRP VNIC created for this VRRP router.
.sp
Note that the name of the VNIC can change over time unless the router is
enabled.
.RE

The
.B show-router
subcommand has the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -x ,
.B --extended
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display additional information of the given VRRP router:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRIMARY_IP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The primary IP address selected by the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VIRTUAL_IPS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The virtual IP addresses configured on the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRV_STAT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The previous state of the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STAT_LAST
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Time since the last state transition.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -P ,
.B --peer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for the backup VRRP router. This option is meaningful
only when the VRRP router is in the backup state.
.sp
The following fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PEER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The primary IP address of the peer VRRP router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P_PRIO
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The priority of the peer VRRP router contained in the advertisement
received from the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P_INTV
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The advertisement interval (in milliseconds) contained in advertisements
received from the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P_ADV_LAST
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Time since last received advertisement from the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MASTER_DOWN_INT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Time interval (in milliseconds) after which to declare Master down.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR -p ,
.B --parseable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the VRRP router information in the machine parseable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,.\|.\|.], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The
field name must be one of the fields listed above, or the special value
\fBall\fR to display all fields. By default (without
.BR -o ),
\fBvrrpadm
show\fR displays all fields.
.RE

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvrrpu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR vrrpd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
