'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vscand 1M "6 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vscand \- vscan service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/vscan/vscand\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B vscand
is the daemon that handles virus scan requests from file
systems on file open and close operations. A file system may support
enabling and disabling of virus scanning on a per dataset basis, using that
file system's administrative command, for example \fBzfs\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
If the file state or scan policy (see
.BR vscanadm (1M)
requires that a
file be scanned,
.B vscand
communicates with external third-party virus
scanners (scan engines) using the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol
(\fBICAP\fR, \fBRFC\fR 3507) to have the file scanned.
.sp
.LP
A file is submitted to a scan engine if it has been modified since it was
last scanned, or if it has not been scanned with the latest scan engine
configuration (Virus definitions). The file's modified attribute and
.B scanstamp
attribute are used to store this information. Once the file
is scanned, the modified attribute is cleared and the \fBscanstamp\fR
attribute is updated.
.sp
.LP
If the file is found to contain a virus, the virus is logged in
.BR syslogd (1M),
an audit record is written, and the file is quarantined
(by setting its quarantine attribute). Once a file is quarantined, attempts
to read, execute or rename the file will be denied by the file system. The
.BR syslogd (1M)
entry and the audit record specify the name of the
infected file and the violations detected in the file. Each violation is
specified as "ID - threat description", where \fBID\fR and threat
description are defined in the X-Infection-Found-Header in \fBICAP\fR
.B RFC
3507; Extensions.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B vscand
connects to scan engines on port 1344. The port
and other service configuration parameters can be configured using
.BR vscanadm (1M).
.sp
.LP
The
.B vscan
service is disabled by default, and can be enabled using
.BR svcadm (1M).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Daemon started successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Daemon failed to start.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvscanu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ps (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR logadm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR vscandadm (1M),
.BR zfs (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If a file is accessed using a protocol which does not invoke the file
system open and close operations, for example
.BR NFSv3 ,
virus scanning is
not initiated on the file.
.sp
.LP
File content is transferred to the scan engines as
.B cleartext
data.
.sp
.LP
Administrative actions for the
.B vscan
service, such as enabling,
disabling, or requesting a restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The
.B vscan
service status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
The
.B vscan
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/filesystem/vscan
.fi
.in -2
.sp

