'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vscanadm 1M "7 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
vscanadm \- vscan service configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBset\fR \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBget\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBimport\fR \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBexport\fR \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBvalidate\fR \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBadd-engine\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|. \fIengine_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBremove-engine\fR \fIengine_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBset-engine\fR \fB-p\fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|. \fIengine_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBget-engine\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|. [\fIengine_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBshow\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvscanadm\fR \fBstats\fR [\fB-z\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B vscanadm
command sets and displays properties of the
.BR vscan
service,
.BR vscand (1M),
and provides scan statistics.
.sp
.LP
File system exemption from virus scanning may be configured per file system
using the appropriate file system administrative command, for example
\fBzfs\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Scan engines are third-party applications on external hosts that perform
the actual virus scanning operation on files. Multiple scan engines can be
configured for use by the
.B vscan
service. A minimum of two scan engines
is recommended. File scan requests are distributed among the configured scan
engines to achieve load balancing. A scan engine is identified by its
.IR engine_id .
The
.I engine_id
is a user defined string of up to 64
bytes.
.sp
.LP
The
.B vscan
service properties are divided into two categories: scan
engine properties, which are specific to a scan engine definition, and
general properties, which apply to the service and are not scan
engine-specific.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
\fBvscanadm\fR recognizes the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm set\fR \fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR [\fB-p\fR
\fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the values of
.B vscan
service general properties.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specifies a property value
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm get\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR].\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the values of
.B vscan
service general properties. If no
properties are specified, all
.B vscan
service general properties are
displayed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies a property value
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
The following properties are available for the
.B "vscanadm set"
and
\fBvscanadm get\fR subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B max-size
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The maximum size of files that should be virus scanned. Files exceeding
\fImax-size\fR are not scanned. The \fImax-size-action\fR property
determines whether access should be allowed or denied to files that exceed
.IR max-size .
.sp
The value of
.I max-size
is a string with a numeric (decimal) component
and an optional letter component that specifies a unit size, in the format
"N[.N][KMGTP][B]".
.sp
Following the numeric component, the optional unit can be specified as
either one or two characters. For example, either "K" or "KB" can be used to
specify kilobytes. Unit specifiers are not case-sensitive, and must follow
the numeric value immediately with no intervening whitespace.
.sp
With either no unit specifier, or a unit specifier of only "B", the numeric
value is assumed to be in bytes. The default value is 1GB.
.sp
Note that while the
.B vscan
service defines a maximum file size for
scanning, scan engines also typically define their own maximum file size
setting. It is recommended that
.I max-size
be set to a value less than
or equal to the maximum file size for the scan engine(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B max-size-action
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Specifies whether access will be allowed or denied to files larger than
.IR max-size .
Files larger than
.I max-size
are not virus scanned.
Valid values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B allow
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
allow access to files larger than
.I max-size
(no virus scan). This is
the default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B deny
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
deny access to files larger than
.I max-size
(no virus scan)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "vscanadm import"
.B -p
\fIproperty filename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Imports the property value from the specified file. The file must contain a
single line specifying the value of a single property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "vscanadm export"
.B -p
\fIproperty filename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exports the property value to the specified file. The file must contain a
single line specifying the value of a single property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "vscanadm validate"
.B -p
\fIproperty filename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Validates the property value in the specified file. The file must contain a
single line specifying the value of a single property.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following properties are available for the
.BR "vscanadm import" ,
.BR "vscanadm export" ,
and
.B "vscanadm validate"
subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B types
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A comma-separated list of file type extension matching rules. This list
defines which types of files are scanned and which should be excluded during
virus scanning. Each rule comprises the rule indicator [+|-], followed by a
file type
.I expresssion
against which a file's type extension is
compared. The file type
.I expresssion
is case insensitive and may
include the "*" and "?" wildcards. There should be no whitespace between the
rule indicator and the file type
.IR expresssion .
If a comma is included
within the file type expression, it must be escaped using a "\e"
(backslash). A file type extension does not include its preceding dot.
.sp
The rule indicator is a single character and can be one of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
+ include file type in virus scanning
- exclude file type from virus scanning
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When a file is being evaluated as a candidate for virus scanning, its file
type will be compared with the rules defined in types. The first rule
matched will be applied. If no match is found, the file will be virus
scanned. The total length of the types string can not exceed 4096 bytes. The
default content of the types list is "+*".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm add-engine\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.
.I engine_id
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a new scan engine identified by
.IR engine_id .
The default values
are used for any scan engine properties that are not specified. The hostname
defaults to the
.IR engine_id .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specifies a property value
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm remove-engine\fR \fIengine_id\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove scan engine identified by
.IR engine_id ,
removing all of its
configuration property values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm set-engine\fR \fB-p\fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR [\fB-p\fR
\fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|. \fIengine_id\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates or updates the configuration property values for the scan engine
identified by
.IR engine_id .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specifies a property value
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm get-engine\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.
[\fIengine_id\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the values of the specified scan engine properties for the scan
engine identified by
.IR engine_id .
If no
.I engine_id
is specified,
this subcommand displays the specified scan engine property values for all
configured scan engines. If no properties are specified, this subcommand
displays all
.B vscan
service scan engine properties.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specifies a property value
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
The following properties are available for the
.BR "vscanadm add-engine" ,
.BR "vscanadm remove-engine" ,
.BR "vscanadm set-engine" ,
and \fBvscanadm
get-engine\fR subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enable
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Specifies whether the scan engine is enabled or disabled. Valid values are
"on" (enabled) and "off" (disabled). The default is "on" (enabled). A scan
engine cannot be enabled if its host property is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B host
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Hostname or
.B IPv4
format
.B IP
address of the scan engine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B port
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
\fBICAP\fR port number of the scan engine. The numeric value ranges from 0
to 65535. The default
.B ICAP
port is 1344.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B max-connection
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The maximum number of concurrent connections that may be established with a
scan engine. The numeric value ranges from 1 to 512. This property defaults
to 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vscanadm show
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Displays the values of all
.B vscan
service general properties and scan
engine properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvscanadm stats\fR [\fB-z\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Displays or resets the following
.B vscan
service statistics:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
number of files scanned
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
number of infected files
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
number of failed scan requests
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
scan errors (including a per scan engine error count)
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Resets
.B vscan
service statistics counters to zero
.RE

.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Setting the Maximum Size Limit
.sp
.LP
To set the maximum size limit for files to be virus scanned to 128
megabytes, enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm set -p max-size=128M
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Allowing Access to Files
.sp
.LP
To allow access to files exceeding the maximum file size, enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm set -p max-size-action=allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Setting File Types
.sp
.LP
To set the types so that only files of type "odt", "exe" and "jpg" are
virus scanned, enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm set -p types=+odt,+exe,+jpg,-*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To set the types so that all file types except "doc" are virus scanned,
enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm set -p types=-doc,+*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Displaying the File Types List
.sp
.LP
To display the file types list, enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm get -p types
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Adding the Scan Engine
.sp
.LP
To add the scan engine "\fBmy_eng\fR" using the default values, enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm add-engine my_eng
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Disabling the Scan Engine
.sp
.LP
To disable the scan engine "\fBmy_eng\fR", enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm set-engine -p enable=off my_eng
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Displaying Scan Engine Properties
.sp
.LP
To display the properties of the scan engine "\fBmy_eng\fR", enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm get-engine my_eng
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8\fR Removing Scan Engine
.sp
.LP
To remove the scan engine "\fBmy_eng\fR", enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm remove-engine my_eng
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9\fR Displaying Vscan Service General and Scan Engine
Properties
.sp
.LP
To Display all vscan service general properties and scan engine properties,
enter

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# vscanadm show
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvscanu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
_
Utility output formatNot-An-Interface
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR vscand (1M),
\fBzfs\fR(1M),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
All users are permitted to use
.B vscanadm
to view
.BR vscan
properties and statistics. To set property values or reset statistics, the
following authorizations are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsolaris.smf.value.vscan\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
change the property values or reset statistics
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B solaris.manage.vscan
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
refresh the service to apply property value changes
.RE

.sp
.LP
To add or remove properties (\fBadd-engine\fR,
.BR remove-engine )
the
following authorizations are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsolaris.smf.modify.application\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
add or remove property group
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B solaris.manage.vscan
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
refresh the service to apply property value changes
.RE

.sp
.LP
All of these authorizations are included in the "\fBVSCAN\fR Management"
profile.
