'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wracct 1M "13 July 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
wracct \- write extended accounting records for active processes and tasks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/wracct\fR \fB-i\fR \fIid_list\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIrecord_type\fR]
     {process | task}
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wracct
utility allows the administrator to invoke the extended
accounting system, if active, to write intermediate records representing the
resource usage of a selected set of processes or tasks. For tasks, a
.I record_type
option is also supported, allowing the administrator to
request the writing of:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
an interval record, which reflects task usage since a previous interval
record (or since task creation if there is no interval record), or
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a partial record, which reflects usage since task creation.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I id_list
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select the
.BR ID s
of the tasks or processes to write records for. Specify
.I id_list
as a comma- or space-separated list of IDs, presented as a
single argument. For some shells, this requires appropriate quoting of the
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I record_type
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select type of record to write for the selected task or process. For tasks,
.I record_type
can be
.B partial
or
.BR interval .
.B partial
is
the default type, and the only type available for process records.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B process
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Treat the given
.B ID
as a process
.B ID
for the purposes of
constructing and writing an extended accounting record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B task
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Treat the given
.B ID
as a task
.B ID
for the purposes of constructing
and writing an extended accounting record.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Writing a Partial Record
.sp
.LP
Write a partial record for all active
.B sendmail
processes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# /usr/sbin/wracct -i "`pgrep sendmail`" process
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Writing an Interval Record
.sp
.LP
Write an interval record for the task with
.BR "ID 182" .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# /usr/sbin/wracct -t interval -i 182 task
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Pertinent components of extended accounting facility are not active.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/exacct/task
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/exacct/proc
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Extended accounting data files.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acctadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
