'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH xenconsoled 1M "26 Sep 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
xenconsoled \- xVM console daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/xenconsoled\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B xenconsoled
daemon provides control of the system consoles of
Solaris xVM domains. To actually connect to a console, use the \fBxm
console\fR command. See
.BR xm (1M).
.SS "Service Management Facility Support"
.sp
.LP
The
.B xenconsoled
service is managed  by  the  service management
facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/xvm/console:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxvmu
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR xm (1M),
.BR xend (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR xVM (5)
