'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH yppoll 1M "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
yppoll \- return current version of a NIS map at a NIS server host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/yppoll\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIypdomain\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR] \fImapname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B yppoll
command asks a
.BR ypserv (\|)
process what the order
number is, and which host is the master NIS server for the named map.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-d " ypdomain
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Use
.I ypdomain
instead of the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-h " host
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Ask the
.B ypserv
process at
.I host
about the map parameters. If
.I host
is not specified, the NIS server for the local host is used. That
is, the default host is the one returned by
.BR ypwhich (1).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypwhich (1),
.BR ypfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
