'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ypstart 1M "24 Oct 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ypstart, ypstop \- Start and stop NIS services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/yp/ypstart\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/yp/ypstop\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ypstart
command is used to start the Network Information Service
(NIS). After the host has been configured using the
.BR ypinit (1M)
command,
.B ypstart
automatically determines the
.B NIS
status of the
machine and starts the appropriate daemons.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ypstop
command is used to stop the  Network Information Service
(NIS).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWypu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypinit (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Network Information Service
.RB ( NIS )
was formerly known as Sun
Yellow Pages
.RB ( YP ).
The functionality of the two services remains the
same; only the name has changed. The name Yellow Pages is a registered
trademark in the United Kingdom of British Telecommunications
.BR PLC ,
and
must not be used without permission.
