'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH zdb 1M "31 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
zdb \- ZFS debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzdb\fR \fIpool\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zdb
command is used by support engineers to diagnose failures and
gather statistics. Since the
.B ZFS
file system is always consistent on
disk and is self-repairing,
.B zdb
should only be run under the direction
by a support engineer.
.sp
.LP
If no arguments are specified,
.BR zdb ,
performs basic consistency checks
on the pool and associated datasets, and report any problems detected.
.sp
.LP
Any options supported by this command are internal to Sun and subject to
change at any time.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The pool is consistent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzfsu
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR zfs (1M),
.BR zpool (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
