'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH zoneadm 1M "13 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
zoneadm \- administer zones
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzoneadm\fR \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] \fIsubcommand\fR
     [\fIsubcommand_options\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBzoneadm\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] list
     [\fIlist_options\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBzoneadm\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot\fR] \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] mark incomplete
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zoneadm
utility is used to administer system zones. A zone is an
application container that is maintained by the operating system runtime.
.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
Once a process has been placed in a zone other than zone
.BR 0 ,
the process
or any of its children cannot change zones.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I root
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate root (boot environment). This option can only be used in
conjunction with the "\fBlist\fR" and "\fBmark\fR" subcommands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I uuid-match
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unique identifier for a zone, as assigned by \fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB). If this
option is present and the argument is a non-empty string, then the zone matching
the
.B UUID
is selected instead of the one named by the
.B -z
option, if
such a zone is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zonename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String identifier for a zone.
.RE

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
Subcommands which can result in destructive actions or loss of work have a
.B -F
flag to force the action. If input is from a terminal device, the user
is prompted if such a command is given without the
.B -F
flag; otherwise, if
such a command is given without the
.B -F
flag, the action is disallowed,
with a diagnostic message written to standard error. If a zone installation or
uninstallation is interrupted, the zone is left in the incomplete state. Use
uninstall to reset such a zone back to the configured state.
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B attach
[\fB-F\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fIbrand-specific
options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B attach
subcommand takes a zone that has been detached from one system
and attaches the zone onto a new system. Therefore, it is advised (though not
required) that the \fBdetach\fR subcommand should be run before the "attach"
takes place. Once you have the new zone in the configured state, use the
.B attach
subcommand to set up the zone root instead of installing the zone
as a new zone.
.sp
The \fB-F\fR option can be used to force the zone into the "installed" state
with no validation. This option should be used with care since it can leave the
zone in an unsupportable state if it was moved from a source system to a target
system that is unable to properly host the zone. The
.B -n
option can be used
to run the
.B attach
subcommand, without executing the command. It uses the
output of the "\fBdetach -n\fR" subcommand as input and is useful to
identify any conflicting issues, such as the network device being incompatible,
and can also determine whether the host is capable of supporting the zone. The
path can be "\fB-\fR", to read the input from standard input.
.sp
The zone's brand may include additional options that govern how the zone will
be attached. See
.BR brands (5)
for specific brand information.
.sp
The zone being attached must first be configured using the
.B zonecfg
(see
\fBzonecfg\fR(1M)) command. This does not apply when running "\fBattach\fR
\fB-n\fR".
.sp
Use the following command to attach a zone:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBzoneadm -z my-zone attach\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBboot\fR [\fB--\fR \fIboot_options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boot (or activate) the specified zones.
.sp
The following
.I boot_options
are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I altinit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select an alternative executable to be the primordial Process.
.I altinit
is
a valid path to an executable. The default primordial process is
.BR init (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I smf_options
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.I smf_options
include two categories of options to control booting
behavior of the service management facility: recovery options and messages
options.
.sp
Message options determine the type and amount of messages that
.BR smf (5)
displays during boot. Service options determine the services which are used to
boot the system. See \fBkernel\fR(1M) for a listing of the \fB-m\fR
suboptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boots only to milestone
.BR svc:/milestone/single-user:default .
This
milestone is equivalent to init level
.BR s .
See
.BR svc.startd "(1M) and"
.BR init (1M).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clone
[\fB-m\fR \fIcopy\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIzfs_snapshot\fR]
.I source_zone
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install a zone by copying an existing installed zone. This subcommand is an
alternative way to install the zone.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I copy
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the clone to be a copy, even if a "\fBZFS\fR clone" is possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I zfs_snapshot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the name of a
.B ZFS
snapshot to use as the source of the clone. The
.I snapshot
must be a
.I snapshot
of the source zone taken from a previous
"\fBzoneadm\fR clone" installation.
.RE

The source zone must be halted before this subcommand can be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdetach\fR [\fB-n\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Detach the specified zone. Detaching a zone is the first step in moving a zone
from one system to another. The full procedure to migrate a zone is that the
zone is detached, the
.I zonepath
directory is moved to the new host, and
then the zone is attached on the new host. Once the zone is detached, it is left
in the configured state. If you try to install or clone to a configured zone
.RB "that has been detached, you will receive an error message and the" " install"
or
.B clone
subcommand will not be allowed to proceed. The
.B -n
option
can be used to run the
.B detach
subcommand, without executing the command.
This generates the information needed for running the "\fBattach -n\fR"
subcommand, which is useful to identify any conflicting issues, such as the
network device being incompatible or if the host is capable of supporting the
zone. The information is sent to standard output and can be saved to a file or
piped to the "\fBattach -n\fR" subcommand.
.sp
Use the following command to detach a zone:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# zoneadm -z my-zone detach
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The source zone must be halted before this subcommand can be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B halt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Halt the specified zones.
.B halt
bypasses running the shutdown scripts
inside the zone. It also removes run time resources of the zone.
.sp
Use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
zlogin \fIzone\fR shutdown
.fi
.in -2
.sp

to cleanly shutdown the zone by running the shutdown scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBhelp\fR [\fIsubcommand\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display general help. If you specify
.IR subcommand ,
displays help on
.IR subcommand .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B install
[\fB-x\fR \fInodataset\fR] [\fIbrand-specific options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install the specified zone on the system. This subcommand automatically
attempts to verify first. It refuses to install if the verify step fails. See
the
.B verify
subcommand.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I nodataset
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not create a
.B ZFS
file system.
.RE

The zone's brand may include additional options that govern how the software
will be installed in the zone. See
.BR brands (5)
for specific brand
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlist\fR [\fIlist_options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the name of the current zones, or the specified zone if indicated.
.sp
By default, all running zones are listed. If you use this subcommand with the
.B "zoneadm -z"
.I zonename
option, it lists only the specified zone,
regardless of its state. In this case, the
.B -i
and
.B -c
options are
disallowed.
.sp
If neither the
.B -i
or
.B -c
options are given, all running zones are
listed.
.sp
The following
.I list_options
are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all configured zones. This option overides the
.B -i
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expand the display to all installed zones.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request machine parsable output. The output format is a list of lines, one per
zone, with colon- delimited fields. These fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
zoneid:zonename:state:zonepath:uuid:brand:ip-type
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the
.B zonepath
contains embedded colons, they can be escaped by a
backslash ("\:"), which is parsable by using the shell \fBread\fR(1) function
with the environmental variable
.BR IFS .
The
.I uuid
value is assigned by
.BR libuuid (3LIB)
when the zone is installed, and is useful for identifying
the same zone when present (or renamed) on alternate boot environments. Any
software that parses the output of the "\fBzoneadm list -p\fR" command must be
able to handle any fields that may be added in the future.
.sp
The
.B -v
and
.B -p
options are mutually exclusive. If neither \fB-v\fR
nor
.B -p
is used, just the zone name is listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display verbose information, including zone name, id, current state, root
directory, brand type, ip-type, and options.
.sp
The
.B -v
and
.B -p
options are mutually exclusive. If neither \fB-v\fR
nor
.B -p
is used, just the zone name is listed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mark incomplete
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of an installed zone to "incomplete." This command may be
useful in cases where administrative changes on the system have rendered a zone
unusable or inconsistent. This change cannot be undone (except by uninstalling
the zone).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B move
.I new_zonepath
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Move the
.I zonepath
to
.IR new_zonepath .
The zone must be halted before
this subcommand can be used. The
.I new_zonepath
must be a local file system
and normal restrictions for
.I zonepath
apply.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ready
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prepares a zone for running applications but does not start any user processes
in the zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B reboot
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restart the zones. This is equivalent to a
.B "halt boot"
sequence. This
subcommand fails if the specified zones are not active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uninstall [-F]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uninstall the specified zone from the system. Use this subcommand with caution.
It removes all of the files under the
.I zonepath
of the zone in question.
You can use the
.B -F
flag to force the action.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verify
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check to make sure the configuration of the specified zone can safely be
installed on the machine. Following is a break-down of the checks by
.B resource/property
type:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B zonepath
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B zonepath
and its parent directory exist and are owned by root with
appropriate modes . The appropriate modes are that
.B zonepath
is
.BR 700 ,
its parent is not
.B group
or
.B world-writable
and so forth.
.B zonepath
is not over an NFS mount. A sub-directory of the \fBzonepath\fR
named "root" does not exist.
.sp
If
.B zonepath
does not exist, the
.B verify
does not fail, but merely
warns that a subsequent install will attempt to create it with proper
permissions. A
.B verify
subsequent to that might fail should anything go
wrong.
.sp
.B zonepath
cannot be a symbolic link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Any
.B fs
resources have their
.I type
value checked. An error is
reported if the value is one of
.BR proc ,
.BR mntfs ,
.BR autofs ,
.BR cachefs ,
or
.B nfs
or the filesystem does not have an associated mount
binary at \fB/usr/lib/fs/\fI<fstype>\fR/mount\fR.
.sp
It is an error for the
.I directory
to be a relative path.
.sp
It is an error for the path specified by
.B raw
to be a relative path or if
there is no
.B fsck
binary for a given filesystem type at
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fI<fstype>\fR/fsck\fR. It is also an error if a corresponding
.B fsck
binary exists but a
.B raw
path is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B net
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All physical network interfaces exist. All network address resources are one
of:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a valid IPv4 address, optionally followed by "\fB/\fR" and a prefix length;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a valid IPv6 address, which must be followed by "\fB/\fR" and a prefix
length;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a host name which resolves to an IPv4 address.
.RE
Note that hostnames that resolve to IPv6 addresses are not supported.
.sp
The physical interface name is the network interface name.
.sp
A zone can be configured to be either exclusive-IP or shared-IP. For a
shared-IP zone, both the physical and address properties must be set. For an
exclusive-IP zone, the physical property must be set and the address property
cannot be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rctl
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
It also verifies that any defined resource control values are valid on the
current machine. This means that the privilege level is
.BR privileged ,
the
limit is lower than the currently defined system value, and that the defined
action agrees with the actions that are valid for the given resource control.
.RE

.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B -m
Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the
.B -m
option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBzoneadm boot -- -m verbose\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Using the
.B -i
Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the
.B -i
option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBzoneadm boot -- -i /sbin/init\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Using the
.B -s
Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the
.B -s
option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBzoneadm boot -- -s\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid usage.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzoneu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR read (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR zlogin (1),
.BR zonename (1),
.BR init (1M),
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR zonecfg (1M),
.BR libuuid (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR brands (5),
.BR native (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.BR zones (5)
service is managed by the service management facility,
.BR smf (5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/zones:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
The service's
status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
The act of installing a new non-global zone is a fresh installation of the
Solaris operating system. A new installation of Solaris must not require
interaction with the user (that is, it must be "hands off"). Because of this,
packages installed in the global zone and all non-global zones cannot contain
request scripts (see \fBpkgask\fR(1M)). If a package did have a request script,
then the creation of a non-global zone could not be done without user
intervention. Any package that contains a request script is added to the global
zone only. See
.BR pkgadd (1M).
