'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH zstreamdump 1M "21 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
zstreamdump \- filter data in zfs send stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzstreamdump\fR [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zstreamdump
utility reads from the output of the \fBzfs send\fR
command, then displays headers and some statistics from that output.  See
.BR zfs (1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress the validation of checksums.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose. Dump all headers, not only begin and end headers.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzfsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR zfs (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
