'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acctcom 1 "11 Jan 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
acctcom \- search and print process accounting files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBacctcom\fR [\fB-abfhikmqrtv\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-E\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-g\fR \fIgroup\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIfactor\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIchars\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIline\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR \fIpattern\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoutput-file\fR] [\fB-O\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-S\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B acctcom
utility reads \fIfilename\fRs, the standard input, or
.BR /var/adm/pacct ,
in the form described by
.BR acct.h "(3HEAD) and"
writes selected records to standard output. Each record represents the
execution of one process. The output shows the
.BR "COMMAND NAME" ,
.BR USER ,
.BR TTYNAME ,
.BR "START TIME" ,
.BR "END TIME" ,
\fBREAL
(SEC)\fR,
.BR "CPU (SEC)" ,
.BR "MEAN SIZE (K)" ,
and optionally,
.B F
(the
\fBfork()\fR/\fBexec()\fR flag: \fB1\fR for \fBfork()\fR without
.BR exec() ),
.B STAT
(the system exit status),
.BR "HOG FACTOR" ,
.BR "KCORE MIN" ,
.BR "CPU FACTOR" ,
.BR "CHARS TRNSFD" ,
and
.BR BLOCKS
.B READ
(total blocks read and written).
.sp
.LP
A  `\fB#\fR' is prepended to the command name if the command was executed
with super-user privileges. If a process is not associated with a known
terminal, a  `\fB?\fR' is printed in the \fBTTYNAME\fR field.
.sp
.LP
If no
.I filename
is specified, and if the standard input is associated
with a terminal or
.B /dev/null
(as is the case when using `\fB&\fR\&' in
the shell),
.B /var/adm/pacct
is read; otherwise, the standard input is
read.
.sp
.LP
If any
.I filename
arguments are given, they are read in their
respective order. Each file is normally read forward, that is, in
chronological order by process completion time. The file
.B /var/adm/pacct
is usually the current file to be examined; a busy
system may need several such files of which all but the current file are
found in \fB/var/adm/pacct\fIincr\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show some average statistics about the processes selected. The statistics
will be printed after the output records.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Read backwards, showing latest commands first. This option has no effect
when standard input is read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Print the \fBfork()\fR/\fBexec()\fR flag and system exit status columns in
the output. The numeric output for this option will be in octal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Instead of mean memory size, show the fraction of total available \fBCPU\fR
time consumed by the process during its execution. This "hog factor" is
computed as (total
.B CPU
time)/(elapsed time).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Print columns containing the
.B I/O
counts in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show mean core size (the default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Do not print any output records, just print the average statistics as with
the
.B -a
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show
.B CPU
factor (user-time/(system-time + user-time)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show separate system and user
.B CPU
times.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Exclude column headings from the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I sec
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes with total
.B CPU
time (system-time + user-time)
exceeding
.I sec
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I time
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select processes existing at or before
.IR time .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.I time
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select processes ending at or before
.IR time .
Using the same
.IR time
for both
.B -S
and
.B -E
shows the processes that existed at
.IR time .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.I group
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes belonging to
.IR group .
The
.I group
may be
designated by either the group
.B ID
or group name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.I factor
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes that exceed \fBfactor\fR, where factor is the "hog
factor" as explained in option \fB-h\fR above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.I chars
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes transferring more characters than the cutoff number
given by
.IR chars .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I line
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes belonging to terminal
.BR /dev/term/line .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I pattern
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only commands matching
.I pattern
that may be a regular expression
as in
.BR regcmp "(3C), except"
.B +
means one or more occurrences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I output-file
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Copy selected process records in the input data format to
.IR output-file ;
suppress printing to standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -O
.I sec
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes with
.B CPU
system time exceeding
.IR sec
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I time
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select processes existing at or after
.IR time ,
given in the format
.IR hr \|[\|:\fImin\fR\|[\|:\fIsec\fR\|]\|].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I time
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Select processes starting at or after
.IR time .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I user
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Show only processes belonging to
.IR user .
The user may be specified by a
user
.BR ID ,
a login name that is then converted to a user
.BR ID ,
`\fB#\fR' (which designates only those processes executed with superuser
privileges), or `\fB?\fR' (which designates only those processes associated
with unknown user
.BR ID s).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
system group file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
system password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/adm/pacct\fIincr\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
active processes accounting file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWaccu
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ps (1),
.BR acct (1M),
.BR acctcms (1M),
.BR acctcon (1M),
.BR acctmerg (1M),
.BR acctprc (1M),
.BR acctsh (1M),
.BR fwtmp (1M),
.BR runacct (1M),
.BR su (1M),
.BR acct (2),
.BR regcmp (3C),
.BR acct.h (3HEAD),
.BR utmp (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Basic Administration
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B acctcom
reports only on processes that have terminated; use
.BR ps (1)
for active processes.
