'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH adb 1 "29 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
adb \- general-purpose debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBadb\fR [\fB-kw\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-V\fR \fImode\fR] [\fIobject\fR [\fIcore\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B adb
utility is an interactive, general-purpose debugger. It can
be used to examine files and provides a controlled environment for the
execution of programs.
.sp
.LP
The
.B adb
utility is now implemented as a link to the
.BR mdb (1)
utility.
.BR mdb (1)
is a low-level debugging utility that can be used to
examine user processes as well as the live operating system or operating
system crash dumps. The new
.BR mdb (1)
utility provides complete backwards
compatibility with the existing syntax and features of
.BR adb ,
including
support for processing
.B adb
macro files. The \fISolaris Modular Debugger Guide\fR and
.BR mdb (1)
man page describes the features of
.BR mdb ,
including its
.B adb
compatibility mode. This mode will be
activated by default when the
.B adb
link is executed.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWmdb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mdb (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Modular Debugger Guide
