'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH addbib 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
addbib \- create or extend a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaddbib\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpromptfile\fR] \fIdatabase\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When
.B addbib
starts up, answering
.B y
to the initial
.B Instructions?
prompt yields directions. Typing
.B n
(or RETURN)
skips the directions.
.B addbib
then prompts for various bibliographic
fields, reads responses from the terminal, and sends output records to
.I database.
A null response (just RETURN) means to leave out that field.
A `\fB\(mi\fR\&' (minus sign) means to go back to the previous field. A
trailing backslash allows a field to be continued on the next line. The
repeating
.B Continue?
prompt allows the user either to resume by typing
.B y
(or RETURN), to quit the current session by typing
.B n
or
.BR q ,
or to edit
.I database
with any system editor  (see
.BR vi (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR ed (1)).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Suppresses prompting for an abstract. Asking for an abstract is the default.
Abstracts are ended with a Control\(miD.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I promptfile
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Uses a new prompting skeleton, defined in
.IR promptfile .
This file should
contain prompt strings, a TAB, and the key-letters to be written to the
.IR database .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Bibliography Key Letters"
.sp
.LP
.RB "The most common key-letters and their meanings are given below." " addbib"
insulates you from these key-letters, since it gives you prompts in English,
but if you edit the bibliography file later on, you will need to know this
information.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %A
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Author's name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %B
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Book containing article referenced
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %C
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
City (place of publication)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %D
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Date of publication
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %E
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Editor of book containing article referenced
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %F
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Footnote number or label (supplied by
.BR refer )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %G
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Government order number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %H
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Header commentary, printed before reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %I
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Issuer (publisher)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %J
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Journal containing article
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %K
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Keywords to use in locating reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %L
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Label field used by
.B -k
option of
.B refer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %M
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Bell Labs Memorandum (undefined)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %N
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Number within volume
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %O
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Other commentary, printed at end of reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %P
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Page number(s)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %Q
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Corporate or Foreign Author (unreversed)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %R
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Report, paper, or thesis (unpublished)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %S
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Series title
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %T
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Title of article or book
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %V
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Volume number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %X
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Abstract \(em used by
.BR roffbib ,
not by
.B refer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %Y,Z
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Ignored by
.B refer
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Editing the bibliography file
.sp
.LP
Except for
.BR A ,
each field should be given just once. Only relevant
fields should be supplied.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB%A	Mark Twain
%T	Life on the Mississippi
%I	Penguin Books
%C	New York
%D	1978\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ed (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR attributes (5)
