'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2016, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH alias 1 "12 Sept 2016" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
alias, unalias \- create or remove a pseudonym or shorthand for a command
or series of commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/alias\fR [\fIalias-name\fR[= \fIstring\fR.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/unalias\fR \fIalias-name\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/unalias\fR \fB-a\fR
.fi

.SS "\fBbosh\fR"
.LP
.B alias\ \c
.RB [ \-a ]\ \c
.RB [ \-e ]\ \c
.RB [ \-g ]\ \c
.RB [ \-l ]\ \c
.RB [ \-p ]\ \c
.RB [ \-r ]\ \c
.RB [ \-\-raw ]\ \c
.RI [ name [= value ]...]

.B unalias\ \c
.RB [ \-a ]\ \c
.RB [ \-g ]\ \c
.RB [ \-l ]\ \c
.RB [ \-p ]\ \c
.RI [ name... ]

.SS "\fBcsh\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBalias\fR [\fIname\fR [\fIdef\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunalias\fR \fIpattern\fR
.fi

.SS "\fBksh\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBalias\fR [\fB-tx\fR] [\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunalias\fR \fIname\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunalias\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.fi

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBalias\fR [\fB-ptx\fR] [\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunalias\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIname\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B alias
and
.B unalias
utilities create or remove a pseudonym or
shorthand term for a command or series of commands, with different
functionality in the C-shell and Korn shell environments.
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/alias\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B alias
utility creates or redefines alias definitions or writes
the values of existing alias definitions to standard output. An alias
definition provides a string value that replaces a command name when it is
encountered.
.sp
.LP
An alias definition affects the current shell execution environment and the
execution environments of the subshells of the current shell. When used as
specified by this document, the alias definition does not affect the parent
process of the current shell nor any utility environment invoked by the
shell.
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/unalias\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B unalias
utility removes the definition for each alias name
specified. The aliases are removed from the current shell execution
environment. The
.B -a
option removes all alias definitions from the
current execution environment.

.SS \fBbosh\fR
.LP
The
.B alias
command creates, redefines or lists existing alias definitions.
An alias definition provides a string value that replaces a command name
when it is encountered on the command line.
.sp
The
.B alias
command in the Bourne Shell supports temporary aliases (POSIX aliases)
that affect only the current execution environment as well as
persistent aliases that affect all interactive shells that are called after a
persistent alias definition was entered or modified.
.sp
An argument in the form
.I alias-name
causes
.B alias
to list the related alias on stdout.
An argument in the form
.IR alias-name = value
causes
.B alias
to define or redefine an alias or to push an alias definition on top of
an old one.
If no argument was given,
.B alias
lists all current alias definitions.
.sp
Alias definitions using the 
.B alias
shell built-in must be written with appropriate quoting so that it is
suitable for reinput to the shell parser.
.sp
The
.B # commands
provide an alternate interface to define aliases that does not use the
standard shell parser. It thus does not require quoting that goes beyond
the quoting needed for the final command line in the expanded command.

.sp
When operating on temporary aliases (i.e. when neither
.B \-g
nor
.B \-l
have been specified), the
.B alias
command always pushes new definitions on top of older ones.
This makes such alias definitions temporary in the
global aliases name space by default, as required by the POSIX standard.
The following options may be used to modify operation:
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
Define an alias definition that is expanded on all arguments of a
command line and not only for command names. Use with care.
.TP
.B \-e
List the everlasting version of the persistent alias definitions instead of
listing the currently active definitions that may have been pushed on top
of the persistent definitions.
.TP
.B \-g
Define or list persistent global aliases that are stored in the file
.B $HOME/.globals
and read by interactive shells.
When defining an alias with
.B \-g
in effect,
.B alias
by default modifies the current top level definition for global aliases.
If there was no push operation before on the related alias,
the current definition is made persistent by writing the definitions to
.BR $HOME/.globals .
The option
.B \-g
is not permitted if persistent global aliases are disabled (see
.B set
command below).
.TP
.B \-l
Define or list persistent directory local aliases that are stored in the file
.B .locals
in the current directory and read by interactive shells.
When defining an alias with
.B \-l
in effect,
.B alias
by default modifies the current top level definition for local aliases.
If there was no push operation before on the related alias,
the current definition is made persistent by writing the definitions to
.B .locals
in the current directory.
The option
.B \-l
is not permitted if persistent local aliases are disabled (see
.B set
command below).
.TP
.B \-p
When defining or redefining aliases,
enforce a push operation even if the option
.B \-g
or
.B \-l
has been specified.
In push mode, the new alias definition is pushed temporarily on
top of existing definitions instead of modifying the current
definition.
.sp
When listing aliases, this option implements compatibility to bash/ksh93
and outputs aliases in a form that can be used as input to the shell
to recreate the current aliases.
With
.B \-p
in effect in list mode, the persistent definition and all pushed definitions
are listed; otherwise only the current active definitions are listed.
.TP
.B \-r
Reload persistent aliases after removing all current aliases.
If persistent aliases are disabled, the effect is the same as with
calling
.BR "unalias \-a" .
No arguments are allowed with this option.
.TP
.B \-R
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-raw
.TP
.B \-\-raw
.PD
Output the listing in the raw format that is used in the persistent
definition files
.B $HOME/.globals
and
.BR .locals .
This increases readability as the quoting needed for defining an alias
with the
.B alias
command is omitted.
.sp
Aliases can be edited in the raw format using
.BR "#\ commands" ,
see the related section above.
.LP
Aliases are often used together with the
.B dosh
builtin in order to run small parameterized pseudo shell scripts.
An alias to list files in the long format and to pipe the result into
.BR more (1)
could be implemented this way:
.LP
.B
    alias lm='dosh '\e''ls -l "$@" | more'\e'' lm-alias'
.RE

The
.B unalias
command removes existing alias definitions.
.sp
The
.B unalias
command in the Bourne Shell supports temporary aliases (POSIX aliases)
that affect only the current execution environment as well as
persistent aliases that affect all interactive shells that are called after a
persistent alias definition was entered or modified.
.sp
When operating on temporary aliases (i.e. when neither
.B \-g
nor
.B \-l
have been specified), all alias definitions for a specified
.I alias-name
are popped from the existing global definitions. No alias definition for the
specified
.I alias-name
remains active, but the file with persistent alias definitions is not touched.
This makes
.B unalias
compatible to the POSIX standard and able to support persistent aliases at the
same time.
The following options may be used to modify operation:
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
Remove all alias definitions from the current shell execution environment.
No arguments are permitted with this option.
As the persistent definitions are not touched, the persistent aliases
may be restored by calling
.BR "alias \-r" .
.TP
.B \-g
Pop a single alias definition for
.I alias-name
from the global aliases.
If the related alias definition is the last for
.I alias-name
(use
.BI "alias \-p \-g" " alias-name
to verify), remove it from the persistent global aliases that are stored
in the file
.B $HOME/.globals
and read by interactive shells.
.TP
.B \-l
Pop a single alias definition for
.I alias-name
from the local aliases.
If the related alias definition is the last for
.I alias-name
(use
.BI "alias \-p \-l" " alias-name
to verify), remove it from the persistent local aliases that are stored
in the file
.B .locals
in the current directory and read by interactive shells.
.TP
.B \-p
When removing aliases,
enforce a
.B pop all
operation even if the option
.B \-g
or
.B \-l
has been specified.
In
.B pop all
mode, all alias definitions for a specified
.I alias-name
are popped from the existing definitions. No alias definition for the
specified
.I alias-name
remains active, but the file with persistent alias definitions is not touched.
.RE

.SS "\fBcsh\fR"
.sp
.LP
.B alias
assigns
.I def
to the alias
.IR name .
The assigned
.I def
is a list of words that can contain escaped history-substitution
metasyntax.
.I name
is not allowed to be
.B alias
or
.BR unalias .
If
.I def
is omitted, the alias
.I name
is displayed along with its
current definition. If both
.I name
and
.I def
are omitted, all
aliases are displayed.
.sp
.LP
Because of implementation restrictions, an alias definition must have been
entered on a previous command line before it can be used.
.sp
.LP
.B unalias
discards aliases that match (filename substitution)
.IR pattern .
All aliases can be removed by
.RB ` "unalias *" '.
.SS "\fBksh\fR"
.sp
.LP
.B alias
with no arguments prints the list of aliases in the form
.I name=value
on standard output. An
.B alias
is defined for each name
whose
.I value
is specified. A trailing space in
.I value
causes the
next word to be checked for alias substitution. The
.B -t
flag is used to
set and list tracked aliases. The value of a tracked alias is the full
pathname corresponding to the specified
.IR name .
The value becomes
undefined when the value of
.B PATH
is reset but the aliases remained
tracked. Without the
.B -t
flag, for each
.I name
in the argument list
for which no
.I value
is specified, the name and value of the alias is
printed. The
.B -x
flag is used to set or print
.IR "exported alias" es.
An exported alias is defined for scripts invoked by
.IR name .
The exit
status is non-zero if a
.I name
is specified, but no value, and no alias
has been defined for the
.IR name .
.sp
.LP
The
.BR alias s
specified by the list of
.IR name s
can be removed from
the
.B alias
list with
.BR unalias .
.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp
.LP
.B alias
creates or redefines alias definitions or writes the existing
alias definitions to standard output.
.sp
.LP
An alias definition provides a string value that replaces a command name
when the command is read. Alias names can contain any printable character
that is not special to the shell. If an alias value ends in a SPACE or TAB,
the word following the command name the alias replaces is also checked to
see whether it is an alias.
.sp
.LP
If no names are specified, the names and values of all aliases are written
to standard output. Otherwise, for each name that is specified, and
.BI = value
is not specified, the current value of the alias
corresponding to name is written to standard output. If
.BI = value
is specified, the alias name is created or redefined.
.sp
.LP
.B alias
is built-in to the shell as a declaration command so that field
splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the arguments. Tilde
expansion occurs on
.IR value .
An alias definition only affects scripts
read by the current shell environment. It does not affect scripts run by
this shell.
.sp
.LP
.B unalias
removes the definition of each named alias from the current
shell execution environment, or all aliases if
.B -a
is specified. It
does not affect any commands that have already been read and subsequently
executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by
.BR unalias :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Removes all alias definitions from the current shell execution
environment.
.RE

.SS "\fBksh\fR"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by
.BR alias :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sets and lists tracked aliases.
.RE

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR alias :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Causes the output to be in the form of
.B alias
commands that can be
used as input to the shell to recreate the current aliases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Specifies tracked aliases.
.sp
Tracked aliases connect a command name to the command's pathname, and are
reset when the
.B PATH
variable is unset. The tracked aliases feature is
now obsolete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Ignored, this option is obsolete.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by
.BR unalias :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Causes all alias definitions to be removed.
.I name
operands are
optional and ignored if specified.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.SS "\fBalias\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alias-name
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Write the alias definition to standard output.
.RE

.SS "\fBunalias\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alias-name
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The name of an alias to be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIalias-name\fB=\fIstring\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Assign the value of
.I string
to the alias
.IR alias-name .
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no operands are specified, all alias definitions are written to standard
output.
.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The format for displaying aliases (when no operands or only
.I name
operands are specified) is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s=%s\en" \fIname\fR, \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The
.I value
string is written with appropriate quoting so that it is
suitable for reinput to the shell.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Modifying a Command's Output
.sp
.LP
This example specifies that the output of the
.B ls
utility is
columnated and more annotated:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBalias ls="ls \(miCF"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Repeating Previous Entries in the Command History File
.sp
.LP
This example creates a simple "redo" command to repeat previous entries in
the command history file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBalias r='fc \(mis'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Specifying a Command's Output Options
.sp
.LP
This example provides that the
.B du
utility summarize disk output in
units of 1024 bytes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBalias du=du \(mik\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Dealing with an Argument That is an Alias Name
.sp
.LP
This example sets up the
.B nohup
utility so that it can deal with an
argument that is an alias name:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBalias nohup="nohup "\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.B alias
and
.BR unalias :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.SS "\fBalias\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
One of the
.I alias-name
operands specified did not have an alias
definition, or an error occurred.
.RE

.SS "\fBunalias\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
One of the
.I alias-name
operands specified did not represent a valid
alias definition, or an error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "\fBbosh, csh, ksh\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bosh (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR shell_builtins (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
