'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH allocate 1 "30 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
allocate \- device allocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBallocate\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuname\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBallocate\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuname\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] \fB-g\fR \fIdev-type\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B allocate
utility manages the ownership of devices through its
allocation mechanism. It ensures that each device is used by only one
qualified user at a time.
.sp
.LP
The
.I device
argument specifies the device to be manipulated. To
preserve the integrity of the device's owner, the allocate operation is
executed on all the device special files associated with that device.
.sp
.LP
The default allocate operation allocates the device special files
associated with
.I device
to the
.B uid
of the current process.
.sp
.LP
Only authorized users may allocate a device. The required authorizations
are specified in
.BR device_allocate (4).
.sp
.LP
When the system is configured with Trusted Extensions,
.B allocate
runs
the clean program for the device before it grants access to the caller to
that device. For devices with removable media that have a mountable file
system,
.B allocate
mounts the media if the caller chooses.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I device
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Force allocates either free or pre-allocated devices. This option is often
used with the
.B -U
option to allocate/reallocate devices to a specific
user. Only those users that have
.B solaris.device.revoke
authorization
are allowed to use this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
\fIdev\(mitype\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Allocates devices with a device\(mitype matching \fIdev\(mitype\fR. The
\fIdev\(mitype\fR argument specifies the device type to be operated on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Silent. Suppresses any diagnostic output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.I uname
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Uses the user ID
.I uname
instead of the user ID of the current process
when performing the allocate operation. Only a user with the
.B solaris.device.revoke
authorization is permitted to use this option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported with Trusted Extensions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Runs the device cleaning program in a windowing environment. If a windowing
version of the program exists, it is used. Otherwise, the standard version
is run in a terminal window.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zonename
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Allocates device to the zone specified by
.IR zonename .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the name of the device to be allocated.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No entry for the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I other value
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_allocate
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_maps
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/dev/*
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/lib/*
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The invocation is Uncommitted. The options are Uncommitted. The output is
Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR deallocate (1),
.BR list_devices (1),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR dminfo (1M),
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
.BR mkdevmaps (1M),
.BR device_allocate (4),
.BR device_maps (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Controlling Access to Devices
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described in this man page is available only if Solaris
Auditing has been enabled. See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more information.
.sp
.LP
On systems configured with Trusted Extensions, the functionality is enabled
by default.
.sp
.LP
.BR /etc/security/dev ,
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
and
.BR mkdevmaps (1M)
might not be supported in a future release of the Solaris Operating
Environment.
