'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH amt 1 "19 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
amt \- run abstract machine test
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBamt\fR [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B amt
command is for use in a Common Criteria security certified
system. The command is used to verify that the low level functions necessary
to enforce the object reuse requirements of the Controlled Access Protection
Profile are working correctly.
.B /usr/bin/amt
is a shell script that
executes tests specific to your system. For a 32-bit system, the tests run
as a 32-bit application. For a 64-bit system, the tests run twice; once as a
32-bit application and once as a 64-bit application.
.sp
.LP
.B amt
lists test results with a
.B pass
or
.B fail
for each test
it performs, unless output is suppressed with the
.B -s
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Suppresses output.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following error values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
All tests passed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Count of the number of tests that failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Incorrect command line argument.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
