'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH apropos 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
apropos \- locate commands by keyword lookup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBapropos\fR \fIkeyword\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B apropos
utility displays the man page name, section number, and a
short description for each man page whose
.B NAME
line contains
.IR keyword .
This information is contained in the
.B /usr/share/man/windex
database created by
.BR catman (1M).
If
.BR catman (1M)
was not run, or was run with the
.B -n
option,
.B apropos
fails. Each word is considered separately and the case of
letters is ignored. Words which are part of other words are considered; for
example, when looking for `compile',
.B apropos
finds all instances of
`compiler' also.
.sp
.LP
.B apropos
is actually just the
.B -k
option to the
.BR man (1)
command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
To find a man page whose NAME line contains a keyword
.sp
.LP
Try

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos password\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos editor\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the line starts `\fIfilename\fR(\fIsection\fR) .\|.\|.' you can run

.sp
.in +2
.nf
man -s \fIsection filename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to display the man page for
.IR filename .

.LP
.B Example 2
To find the man page for the subroutine
.B printf()
.sp
.LP
Try

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos format\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and then

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBman -s 3s printf\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to get the manual page on the subroutine
.BR printf() .

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/man/windex
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
table of contents and keyword database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR man (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR catman (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\f(CW/usr/share/man/windex: No such file or directory\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This database does not exist.
.BR catman (1M)
must be run to create it.
.RE

