'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH arch 1 "21 Oct 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
arch \- display the architecture of the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBarch\fR [\fB-k\fR | \fIarchname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B arch
utility displays the application architecture of the current
host system. Due to extensive historical use of this command without any
options, all SunOS
.RI 5. x
SPARC based systems will return "sun4" as their
application architecture. Use of this command is discouraged. See NOTES section
below.
.sp
.LP
Systems can be broadly classified by their
.BR architectures ,
which define
what executables will run on which machines. A distinction can be made between
.B kernel
architecture and
.B application
architecture (or, commonly, just
"architecture"). Machines that run different kernels due to underlying hardware
differences may be able to run the same application programs.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays the kernel architecture, such as
.BR sun4u .
This defines which
specific SunOS kernel will run on the machine, and has implications only for
programs that depend on the kernel explicitly (for example,
.BR ps (1)).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I archname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Use
.I archname
to determine whether the application binaries for this
.RI "application architecture can run on the current host system. The " " archname"
.RB "must be a valid application architecture, such as  " sun4 , " i86pc" ,
and
so forth.
.sp
If
.B application
binaries for
.I archname
can run on the current host
system,
.B TRUE
(\fB0\fR) is returned. Otherwise, 
.B FALSE
(\fB1\fR) is
returned.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mach (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This command is provided for compatibility with previous releases and its use
is discouraged. Instead, the
.B uname
command is recommended. See
.BR uname (1)
for usage information.
