'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
.TH atrm 1 "16 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
atrm \- remove jobs spooled by at or batch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBatrm\fR [\fB-afi\fR] [ [\fIjob\fR \fI#\fR] [\fIuser\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B atrm
utility removes delayed-execution jobs that were created
with the
.BR at (1)
command, but have not yet executed. The list of these
jobs and associated job numbers can be displayed by using
.BR atq (1).
.sp
.LP
\fBatrm\fR removes each job-number you specify, and/or all jobs belonging
to the user you specify, provided that you own the indicated jobs.
.sp
.LP
You can only remove jobs belonging to other users if you have
\fBsolaris.jobs.admin\fR privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
All. Removes all unexecuted jobs that were created by the current user. If
invoked by the privileged user, the entire queue is flushed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force. All information regarding the removal of the specified jobs is
suppressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Interactive.
.B atrm
asks if a job should be removed. If the response is
affirmative, the job is removed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/cron/atjobs
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Spool area for
.B at
jobs
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR atrm :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.LP
Affirmative responses are processed using the extended regular expression
defined for the
.B yesexpr
keyword in the
.B LC_MESSAGES
category of
the user's locale. The locale specified in the
.B LC_COLLATE
category
defines the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character
collating elements used in the expression defined for
.BR yesexpr .
The
locale specified in
.B LC_CTYPE
determines the locale for interpretation
of sequences of bytes of text data a characters, the behavior of character
classes used in the expression defined for the
.BR yesexpr .
See
.BR locale (5)
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR at (1),
.BR atq (1),
.BR auths (1),
.BR cron (1M),
.BR auth_attr (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR locale (5)
