'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiotest 1 "5 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiotest \- test audio device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudiotest\fR [\fB-24571\fR] [\fIdev\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiotest
utility runs a test for the named audio device (or all
audio devices found on the system if none is given). The test includes
playing an audio sample over each channel and measuring the rate of playback
for clock drift.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Loop mode. The test is run in an infinite loop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Stereo (2-channel) mode. This is the default mode. Playback assumes 2
channels are present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -4
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Quadraphonic mode (4-channel surround). The test assumes that four surround
channels are present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -5
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Surround sound mode (5.1). The test checks the left, right, surround left,
surround right, and center channels. The low frequency effects channel is
not tested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -7
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Surround sound mode (7.1). The test checks the left, right, surround left,
surround right, back surround left, back surround right, and center
channels. The low frequency effects channel is not tested.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dev
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The path the device to test, for example,
.BR /dev/dsp0 .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWauda
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR audioconvert (1),
.BR audiorecord (1),
.BR mixerctl (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B audiotest
has no way to detect the number of actual audio channels
supported by the physical device.
.sp
.LP
.B audiotest
does not test the low-frequency effects (LFE) channel.
.sp
.LP
There is no test for audio capture, volume controls, or other advanced
device features.
