'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audioplay 1 "1 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audioplay \- play audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudioplay\fR [\fB-iV\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fIvol\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audioplay
utility copies the named audio files (or the standard
input if no filenames are present) to the audio device. If no input file is
specified and standard input is a tty, the program exits with an error
message.
.sp
.LP
The input files must contain a valid audio file header. The encoding
information in this header is matched against the capabilities of the audio
device and, if the data formats are incompatible, an error message is
printed and the file is skipped. Compressed
.B ADPCM
(G.721) monaural
audio data is automatically uncompressed before playing.
.sp
.LP
Minor deviations in sampling frequency (that is, less than 1%) are
ordinarily ignored. This allows, for instance, data sampled at 8012 Hz to be
played on an audio device that only supports 8000 Hz. If the
.B -V
option
is present, such deviations are flagged with warning messages.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I dev
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.IR Device :
The
.I dev
argument specifies an alternate audio device to
which output should be directed. If the
.B -d
option is not specified,
the
.B AUDIODEV
environment variable is consulted (see below). Otherwise,
.B /dev/audio
is used as the default audio device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.IR Immediate :
If the audio device is unavailable (that is, another
process currently has write access),
.B audioplay
ordinarily waits until
it can obtain access to the device. When the
.B -i
option is present,
.B audioplay
prints an error message and exits immediately if the device
is busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.I vol
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.IR Volume :
The output volume is set to the specified value before
.RB "playing begins, and is reset to its previous level when" " audioplay"
exits. The
.I vol
argument is an integer value between 0 and 100,
inclusive. If this argument is not specified, the output volume remains at
the level most recently set by any process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.IR Verbose :
Prints messages on the standard error when waiting for
access to the audio device or when sample rate deviations are detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\e?\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.IR Help :
Prints a command line usage message.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
.IR "File Specification" :
Audio files named on the command line are played
sequentially. If no filenames are present, the standard input stream (if it
is not a tty) is played (it, too, must contain an audio file header). The
special filename \fB\(mi\fR can be used to read the standard input stream
instead of a file. If a relative path name is supplied, the \fBAUDIOPATH\fR
environment variable is consulted (see below).
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B audioplay
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (
2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIODEV
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The full path name of the audio device to write to, if no
.B -d
argument
is supplied. If the
.B AUDIODEV
variable is not set,
.B /dev/audio
is
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIOPATH
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A colon-separated list of directories in which to search for audio files
whose names are given by relative pathnames. The current directory
(\fB\&.\fR) can be specified explicitly in the search path. If the
.B AUDIOPATH
variable is not set, only the current directory is
searched.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWauda
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR audioconvert (1),
.BR audiorecord (1),
.BR mixerctl (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR audio (7I)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B audioplay
currently supports a limited set of audio format
conversions. If the audio file is not in a format supported by the audio
device, it must first be converted. For example, to convert to voice format
on the fly, use the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBaudioconvert -f voice myfile | audioplay\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The format conversion is not always be able to keep up with the audio
output. If this is the case, you should convert to a temporary file before
playing the data.
