'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audioctl 1 "1 Dec 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audioctl \- audio mixer control command line application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBlist-devices\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBshow-device\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBshow-control\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fIcontrol\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBset-control\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] \fIcontrol value\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBsave-controls\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] [-f] \fIfile\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBload-controls\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audioctl
command is used to control various features of the audio
mixer and to get information about the audio mixer and the audio device. The
\fBaudioctl\fR command operates on the following data types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An audio device, such as
.BR audiohd#0 .
The subcommands that accept this
do so as an argument to an option
.BR -d .
If not supplied, the default
audio device is assumed. Any device node associated with an audio device
works as well, such as
.BR /dev/sound/0 ,
.BR /dev/dsp1 ,
or
.BR /dev/audio .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I control
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A mixer control name, such as \fBvolume\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The value of a control. The specific format depends on the type of control.
Monophonic values usually use a single whole number between
.B 0
and
.BR 100 ,
inclusive. Stereo values use a pair of such numbers, representing
the right and left channels. Boolean values indicate either
.B on
or
\fBoff\fR. Enumerations take a single value of one or more names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An ASCII text file of control settings.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
 Each subcommand has its own set of options that it takes. However, some subcommands support the special flag -v, which indicates a request for more verbose output.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B audioctl list-devices
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all the audio devices on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaudioctl show-device [-v] [-d\fR \fIdevices\fB]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display general information about a device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaudioctl show-control [-v] [-d \fIdevice\fR] [\fIcontrol ..\fR]\fR
\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the control setting values for the device. The named controls are
displayed. If no control names are provided, then all control values are
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaudioctl set-control [-v] [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIcontrol
value\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 Changes the value of a control to the supplied value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaudioctl save-controls [-f] [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 Saves the current state of all mixer control values to the named file. The command aborts safely if the file already exists, unless \fB-f\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaudioctl load-controls [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restores previously saved state in the named file for all mixer controls.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIODEV
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If the
.B -d
and
.B -a
options are not specified, the \fBAUDIODEV\fR
environment variable is consulted. If set,
.B AUDIODEV
contains the full
path name of the user's default audio device.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/dev/audioctl /dev/sound/{0.\|.\|.n}ctl\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWauda
_
Stability LevelSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B audioctl
command and its subcommands are Committed. The human
readable output is Not An Interface. The device names, control names, and
values are Uncommitted. The format of the state files used by the
\fBsave-controls\fR and \fBload-controls\fR  subcommands is Committed
Private.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR audioconvert (1),
.BR audioplay (1),
.BR audiorecord (1),
.BR open (2),
.BR attributes (5)
