'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bdiff 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bdiff \- big diff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBbdiff\fR \fIfilename1\fR \fIfilename2\fR [\fIn\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B bdiff
is used in a manner analogous to
.B diff
to find which lines
in \fIfilename1\fR and \fIfilename2\fR must be changed to bring the files
into agreement. Its purpose is to allow processing of files too large for
.BR diff .
If \fIfilename1 (filename2)\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input
is read.
.sp
.LP
.B bdiff
ignores lines common to the beginning of both files, splits the
remainder of each file into \fIn\fR-line segments, and invokes \fBdiff\fR on
corresponding segments. If both optional arguments are specified, they must
appear in the order indicated above.
.sp
.LP
The output of
.B bdiff
is exactly that of
.BR diff ,
with line numbers
adjusted to account for the segmenting of the files (that is, to make it
look as if the files had been processed whole). Note:  Because of the
segmenting of the files,
.B bdiff
does not necessarily find a smallest
sufficient set of file differences.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The number of line segments. The value of
.I n
is 3500 by default. If
the optional third argument is given and it is numeric, it is used as the
value for
.IR n .
This is useful in those cases in which 3500-line segments
are too large for
.BR diff ,
causing it to fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Specifies that no diagnostics are to be printed by
.B bdiff
(silent
option). Note:  However, this does not suppress possible diagnostic messages
from
.BR diff ,
which
.B bdiff
calls.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBbdiff\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/tmp/bd\fI?????\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIenabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use
.B help
for explanations.
