'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH break 1 "8 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
break, continue \- shell built-in functions to escape from or advance
within a controlling while, for, foreach, or until loop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "\fBsh\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBbreak\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcontinue\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "\fBcsh\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBbreak\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcontinue\fR
.fi

.SS "\fBksh\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fB*break\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB*continue\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fB+break\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB+continue\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "\fBsh\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B break
utility exits from the enclosing \fBfor\fR or \fBwhile\fR
loop, if any. If
.I n
is specified, break
.I n
levels.
.sp
.LP
The
.B continue
utility resumes the next iteration of the enclosing
\fBfor\fR or \fBwhile\fR loop. If \fIn\fR is specified, resume at the
\fIn\fR-th enclosing loop.
.SS "\fBcsh\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B break
utility resumes execution after the
.B end
of the
nearest enclosing \fBforeach\fR or
.B while
loop. The remaining commands
on the current line are executed. This allows multilevel breaks to be
written as a list of
.B break
commands, all on one line.
.sp
.LP
The
.B continue
utility continues execution of the next iteration of the
nearest enclosing
.B while
or \fBforeach\fR loop.
.SS "\fBksh\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B break
utility exits from the enclosed
.BR for ,
.BR while ,
.BR until ,
or
.B select
loop, if any. If
.I n
is specified, then
.B break
.I n
levels. If
.I n
is greater than the number of
enclosing loops, the outermost enclosing loop shall be exited.
.sp
.LP
The
.B continue
utility resumes the next iteration of the enclosed
\fBfor\fR,
.BR while ,
.BR until ,
or
.B select
loop. If
.I n
is
specified then resume at the \fIn\fR-th enclosed loop. If
.I n
is greater
than the number of enclosing loops, the outermost enclosing loop shall be
used.
.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two
* (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fBI/O\fR redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words that follow a command preceded by
.B **
that are in the format of
a variable assignment are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
\fB=\fR sign, and also that word splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp
.LP
\fBbreak\fR is a shell special built-in that exits the smallest enclosing
\fBfor\fR,
.BR select ,
.BR while ,
or
.B until
loop. It also exits the
\fIn\fRth enclosing loop if \fIn\fR is specified. Execution continues at the
command following the loop or loops.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified, it must be a positive integer \fB\(>=1\fR\&. If
\fIn\fR is larger than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing
loop is exited.
.sp
.LP
\fBcontinue\fR is a shell special built-in that continues execution at the
top of the smallest enclosing \fBfor\fR,
.BR select ,
.BR while ,
or
\fBuntil\fR loop, if any; or of the top of the \fIn\fRth enclosing loop if n
is specified.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified, it must be a positive integer \fB\(>=1\fR\&. If
\fIn\fR is larger than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing
loop is used.
.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.BR ksh93 (1)
commands that are preceded by one or
two
.B +
symbols are special built-in commands and are treated the
following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Built-in commands are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words following a command preceded by
.B ++
that are in the format of a
variable assignment are expanded with rules as a variable assignment. This
means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and field
splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR exit (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
