'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH builtin 1 "1 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
builtin \- ksh93 built-in function to add, delete, or display shell
built-ins
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBbuiltin\fR [\fB-ds\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIlib\fR] [\fIpathname\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B "ksh93 builtin"
command adds, deletes, or displays built-in
commands in the current shell environment. A built-in command executes in the
current shell process and can have side effects in the current shell. On most
systems, the invocation time for built-in commands is one or two orders of
magnitude less than commands that create a separate process.
.sp
.LP
For each
.I pathname
specified, the basename of the pathname determines
the name of the built-in. For each basename, the shell looks for a C level
function in the current shell whose name is determined by pre-pending
\fBb_\fR to the built-in name. If \fIpathname\fR contains a forward slash
(\fB/\fR), the built-in is bound to
.IR pathname .
A built-in bound to a
pathname is only executed if
.I pathname
is the first executable found
during a path search. Otherwise, built-ins are found prior to performing the
path search.
.sp
.LP
If
.I pathname
is not specified,
.B builtin
displays the current list
of built-ins, or just the special built-ins if the
.B -s
option is
specified, on standard output. The full pathname for built-ins that are bound
to pathnames are displayed.
.sp
.LP
Libraries containing built-ins can be specified with the \fB-f\fR option. If
the library contains a function named
.BR lib_init() ,
this function is
invoked with argument
.B 0
when the library is loaded. The
\fBlib_init()\fR function can load built-ins by invoking an appropriate C
level function. In this case there is no restriction on the C level function
name.
.sp
.LP
The C level function is invoked with three arguments. The first two are the
same as
.B main()
and the third one is a pointer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B "ksh93 builtin"
command cannot be invoked from a restricted
shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Delete each of the specified built-ins. Special built-ins cannot be
deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIlib\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
On systems with dynamic linking, load and search for built-ins in the shared
library,
.IR lib .
.sp
Libraries are searched for in
.B $PATH
and system dependent library
directories. The system dependent shared library prefix or suffix can be
omitted. Once a library is loaded, its symbols become available for the
current and subsequent invocations of
.BR builtin .
Multiple libraries can
be specified with separate invocations of
.BR builtin .
Libraries are
searched in the reverse order in which they are specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Display only the special built-ins.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pathname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the
.IR pathname .
The basename of the pathname determines the
name of the built-in.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Loading a \fBbuiltin\fR Command
.sp
.LP
The following example loads a
.B builtin
command
.B mycmd
from the
library
.BR libfoo.so :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% builtin -f foo mycmd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
.RB "David Korn," " dgk@research.att.com"
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR whence (1),
.BR attributes (5)
