'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH calendar 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
calendar \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcalendar\fR [\fB-\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B calendar
utility consults the file
.B calendar
in the current
directory and writes lines that contain today's or tomorrow's date anywhere
in the line to standard output. Most reasonable month-day dates such as
.BR "Aug. 24" ,
.BR "august 24" ,
.BR 8/24 ,
and so forth, are recognized,
but not \fB24 August\fR or \fB24/8\fR. On Fridays and weekends "tomorrow"
extends through Monday.
.B calendar
can be invoked regularly by using the
.BR crontab (1)
or
.BR at (1)
commands.
.sp
.LP
When the optional argument
.B -
is present,
.B calendar
does its job
for every user who has a file
.B calendar
in his or her login directory
and sends them any positive results by
.BR mail (1).
Normally this is done
daily by facilities in the UNIX operating system (see\fBcron\fR(1M)).
.sp
.LP
If the environment variable
.B DATEMSK
is set,
.B calendar
will use
its value as the full path name of a template file containing format
strings. The strings consist of conversion specifications and text
characters and are used to provide a richer set of allowable date formats in
different languages by appropriate settings of the environment variable
.B LANG
or
.BR LC_TIME ;
see
.BR environ (5).
See\fBstrftime\fR(3C) for
the list of allowable conversion specifications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Possible contents of a template
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the possible contents of a template:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
%B %eth of the year %Y
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.B %B
represents the full month name,
.B %e
the day of month and
.B %Y
the year (4 digits).

.sp
.LP
If
.B DATEMSK
is set to this template, the following
.B calendar
file
would be valid:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
March 7th of the year 1989 <Reminder>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR calendar :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR NLSPATH ,
and
.BR TZ .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
system password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/cal*
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
temporary files used by
.BR calendar
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/calprog
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
program used to determine dates for today and tomorrow
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR at (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR cron (1M),
.BR ypbind (1M),
.BR strftime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Appropriate lines beginning with white space will not be printed.
.sp
.LP
Your calendar must be public information for you to get reminder service.
.sp
.LP
\fBcalendar\fR's extended idea of ``tomorrow'' does not account for
holidays.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -
argument works only on calendar files that are local to the
machine;
.B calendar
is intended not to work on calendar files that are
mounted remotely with
.B NFS.
Thus, `\fBcalendar -\fR' should be
run only on diskful machines where home directories exist;  running it on a
diskless client has no effect.
.sp
.LP
.B calendar
is no longer in the default root crontab. Because of the
network burden `\fBcalendar -\fR' can induce, it is inadvisable in an
environment running \fBypbind\fR(1M) with a large passwd.byname map.  If,
however, the usefulness of
.B calendar
outweighs the network impact, the
super-user may run `\fBcrontab -e\fR' to edit the root crontab.
Otherwise, individual users may wish to use `\fBcrontab -e\fR' to edit
their own crontabs to have
.B cron
invoke
.B calendar
without the
.B -
argument, piping output to mail addressed to themselves.
