'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cancel 1 "26 May 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cancel \- cancel print request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcancel\fR [\fIrequest-ID\fR.\|.\|.] [\fIdestination\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcancel\fR \fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR.\|.\|. [\fIdestination\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cancel
utility cancels print requests. There are two forms of the
\fBcancel\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The first form of
.B cancel
has two optional arguments: print requests
(\fIrequest-ID\fR) and destinations
.RI ( destination ).
Specifying
\fIrequest-ID\fR with \fIdestination\fR cancels \fIrequest-ID\fR on
.IR destination .
Specifying only the destination cancels the current print
request on
.IR destination .
If
.I destination
is not specified,
\fBcancel\fR cancels the requested print request on all destinations.
.sp
.LP
The second form of
.B cancel
cancels a user's print requests on specific
destinations.
.sp
.LP
Users can only cancel print requests associated with their username. By
default, users can only cancel print requests on the host from which the print
request was submitted. If a super-user has set
.B user-equivalence=true
in
\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR on the print server, users can cancel print requests
associated with their username on any host. Super-users can cancel print
requests on the host from which the print request was submitted. Superusers can
also cancel print requests from the print server.
.sp
.LP
The print client commands locate destination information using the
\fBprinters\fR database in the name service switch. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
.BR printers (4),
and
.BR printers.conf (4)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The name of the user for which print requests are to be cancelled. Specify
\fIuser\fR as a username.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I destination
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The destination on which the print requests are to be canceled.
\fIdestination\fR is the name of a printer or class of printers (see
.BR lpadmin (1M)).
If
.I destination
is not specified,
.B cancel
cancels
the requested print request on all destinations. Specify \fIdestination\fR
using atomic, URI-style (\fIscheme\fB://\fIendpoint\fR), or POSIX-style
(\fIserver\fB:\fIdestination\fR), names. See Notes for information
regarding using URI-style or POSIX-style destination names with \fBcancel\fR.
See
.BR printers.conf (4)
for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I request-ID
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The print request to be canceled. Specify
.I request-ID
using
\fBLP-style\fR request \fBIDs\fR (\fIdestination\fR-\fInumber\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The name of the user for which the print requests are to be cancelled. Specify
\fIuser\fR as a username.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
System printer configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User-configurable printer database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ou=printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
LDAP version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBprinters.conf.byname\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
\fBNIS\fR version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.org_dir
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
\fBNIS+\fR version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlp-cmds
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpq (1B),
.BR lpr (1B),
.BR lprm (1B),
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR lpadmin (1M),
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBprinters\fR(4),
\fBprinters.conf\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
URI-style and POSIX-style destination names (\fIserver\fR:\fIdestination\fR)
are treated as print requests if
.I destination
has the same format as an
.B LP-style
.IR request-ID .
See
.BR standards (5).
.sp
.LP
Some print servers send cancelation notification to job owners when their
print jobs have been cancelled. This notification usually comes in the form of
an email message. Cancelation notices cannot be disabled on a Solaris server.
.sp
.LP
When IPP is in use, the user is prompted for a passphsrase if the remote print
service is configured to require authentication.
