'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cat 1 "8 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cat \- concatenate and display files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/cat\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/cat\fR [\fB-nbsuvet\fR] [\fIfile\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.LP
.nf
\fBcat\fR [\fB-bdenstuvABDEST\fR] [\fIfile\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/cat\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B cat
utility reads each
.I file
in sequence and writes it on
the standard output. Thus:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints
.I file
on your terminal, and:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat file1 file2 >file3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
concatenates
.I file1
and
.IR file2 ,
and writes the results in
.IR file3 .
If no input file is given,
.B cat
reads from the standard
input file.
.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B cat
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
paths. It is invoked when
.B cat
is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/cat
or
.B /usr/bin/cat
executable.
.B cat
copies each file in sequence to the
standard output. If no file is specified, or if the file is
.BR - ,
.B cat
copies from standard input starting at the current location.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/cat\fR"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR /usr/bin/cat :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Number the lines, as
.BR -n ,
but omit the line numbers from blank
lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Precede each line output with its line number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B cat
is silent about non-existent files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The output is not buffered.
.sp
Buffered output is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Non-printing characters, with the exception of tabs, NEWLINEs and form
feeds, are printed visibly. ASCII control characters (octal
.B 000
\(mi
.BR 037 )
are printed as \fB^\fIn,\fR where \fIn\fR is the corresponding
ASCII character in the range octal 100 \(mi 137 (@, A, B, C, . . ., X, Y, Z,
[, \e, ], ^, and _); the
.B DEL
character (octal
.BR 0177 )
is printed
.BR ^? .
Other non-printable characters are printed as \fBM-\fIx,\fR
where
.I x
is the ASCII character specified by the low-order seven
bits.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When used with the
.B -v
option, the following options can be used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
A
.B $
character is printed at the end of each line, prior to the
NEWLINE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Tabs are printed as
.BR ^I s
and form feeds to be printed as \fB^L\fRs.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B -e
and
.B -t
options are ignored if the
.B -v
option is not
specified.
.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp
.LP
.B ksh93 cat
supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b --number-nonblank
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Number lines as with
.B -n
but omit line numbers from blank lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d --dos-input
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Open input files in text mode. Removes RETURNs in front of NEWLINEs on some
systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Equivalent to
.BR -vE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n --number
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Insert a line number at the beginning of each line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Equivalent to
.B -S
for
.B "att universe"
and
.B -B
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Equivalent to
.BR -vT .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u --unbuffer
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Do not delay the output by buffering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v --show-nonprinting
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Cause non-printing characters (with the exception of TABs, NEWLINEs, and
form feeds) to be output as printable character sequences.
.B ASCII
control characters are printed as
.BR ^n ,
where
.I n
is the
corresponding
.B ASCII
character in the range octal \fB100\fR-\fB137\fR.
The DEL character
.RB "(octal " 0177 )
is copied as
.BR ^? .
Other
non-printable characters are copied as \fBM-\fIx\fR where
.I x
is the
.B ASCII
character specified by the low-order seven bits. Multi-byte
characters in the current locale are treated as printable characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A --show-all
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Equivalent to
.BR -vET .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -B --squeeze-blank
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Replace multiple adjacent NEWLINE characters with one NEWLINE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D --dos-output
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Open output files in text mode. Insert RETURNs in front of NEWLINEs on some
systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E --show-ends
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Insert a
.B $
before each NEWLINE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S --silent
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
.B cat
is silent about non-existent files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T --show-blank
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Copies TABs as
.B ^I
and form feeds as
.BR ^L .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If no
.I file
is specified, the standard
input is used. If \fIfile\fR is \fB\|\(mi\|\fR,
.B cat
reads from the
standard input at that point in the sequence.
.B cat
does not close and
reopen standard input when it is referenced in this way, but accepts
multiple occurrences of \fB\|\(mi\|\fR as \fIfile\fR.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR cat
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Concatenating a File
.sp
.LP
The following command writes the contents of the file
.B myfile
to
standard output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat myfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Concatenating Two files into One
.sp
.LP
The following command concatenates the files
.B doc1
and
.B doc2
and
writes the result to
.BR doc.all .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat doc1 doc2 > doc.all\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Concatenating Two Arbitrary Pieces of Input with a Single
Invocation
.sp
.LP
When standard input is a terminal, the following command gets two arbitrary
pieces of input from the terminal with a single invocation of
.BR cat :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat start - middle - end > file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
when standard input is a terminal, gets two arbitrary pieces of input from
the terminal with a single invocation of
.BR cat .

.sp
.LP
If standard input is a regular file,

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat start - middle - end > file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would be equivalent to the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcat start - middle /dev/null end > file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
because the entire contents of the file would be consumed by
.B cat
the
first time \fB\|\(mi\|\fR was used as a
.I file
operand and an
end-of-file condition would be detected immediately when \fB\|\(mi\|\fRwas
referenced the second time.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cat :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
All input files were output successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/cat\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "\fBksh93\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR touch (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Redirecting the output of
.B cat
onto one of the files being read causes
the loss of the data originally in the file being read. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat filename1 filename2 > filename1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
causes the original data in
.B filename1
to be lost.
