'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cd 1 "8 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cd, chdir, pushd, popd, dirs \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/cd\fR [\fIdirectory\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchdir\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchdir\fR [\fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpushd\fR [\fB+\fIn\fR | \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpopd\fR [\fB+\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdirs\fR [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh, ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fIarg\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR \fIold\fR \fInew\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/cd"
.sp
.LP
The
.B /usr/bin/cd
utility changes the current directory in the context
of the
.B cd
utility only. This is in contrast to the version built into
the shell.
.B /usr/bin/cd
has no effect on the invoking process but can
be used to determine whether or not a given directory can be set as the
current directory.
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
The Bourne shell built-in
.B cd
changes the current directory to
.IR argument .
The shell parameter
.B HOME
is the default
.IR argument .
The shell parameter
.B CDPATH
defines the search path for
the directory containing
.IR argument .
Alternative directory names are
separated by a colon
.RB ( : ).
The default path is
.B <null>
(specifying
the current directory). The current directory is specified by a null path
name, which can appear immediately after the equal sign or between the colon
delimiters anywhere else in the path list. If
.I argument
begins with
`\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or `\fB\&.\|.\fR', the search path is not used.
Otherwise, each directory in the path is searched for
.IR argument .
.B cd
must have execute (search) permission in
.IR argument .
Because a
new process is created to execute each command,
.B cd
would be
ineffective if it were written as a normal command; therefore, it is
recognized by and is internal to the shell. (See
.BR pwd (1),
.BR sh (1),
and
.BR chdir (2)).
.sp
.LP
.B chdir
is just another way to call
.BR cd .
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
If
.I dir
is not specified, the C shell built-in
.B cd
uses the value
of shell parameter
.B HOME
as the new working directory. If \fIdir\fR
specifies a complete path starting with `\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or
`\fB\&.\|.\fR', \fIdir\fR becomes the new working directory. If neither case
applies,
.B cd
tries to find the designated directory relative to one of
the paths specified by the
.B CDPATH
shell variable.
.B CDPATH
has the
same syntax as, and similar semantics to, the
.B PATH
shell variable.
.B cd
must have execute (search) permission in
.IR dir .
Because a new
process is created to execute each command,
.B cd
would be ineffective if
it were written as a normal command; therefore, it is recognized by and is
internal to the C-shell. (See
.BR pwd (1),
.BR sh (1),
and
.BR chdir (2)).
.sp
.LP
.B chdir
changes the shell's working directory to directory
.IR dir .
If no argument is given, change to the home directory of the user. If
.I dir
is a relative pathname not found in the current directory, check
for it in those directories listed in the
.B cdpath
variable. If
.I dir
is the name of a shell variable whose value starts with a
.BR / ,
change to the directory named by that value.
.sp
.LP
.B pushd
pushes a directory onto the directory stack. With no arguments,
exchange the top two elements.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Rotate the \fIn\fR'th entry to the top of the stack and
.B cd
to it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dir
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Push the current working directory onto the stack and change to
.IR dir .
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B popd
pops the directory stack and
.B cd
to the new top directory.
The elements of the directory stack are numbered from 0 starting at the
top.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Discard the
.IR n "'th entry in the stack."
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B dirs
prints the directory stack, most recent to the left; the first
directory shown is the current directory. With the
.B -l
argument,
produce an unabbreviated printout; use of the
.B ~
notation is
suppressed.
.SS "ksh, ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The Korn shell built-in
.B cd
command can be in either of two forms. In
the first form it changes the current directory to
.IR arg .
If
.IR arg
is \fB\(mi\fR the directory is changed to the previous directory. The shell
variable
.B HOME
is the default
.IR arg .
The environment variable
.B PWD
is set to the current directory. If the
.B PWD
is changed, the
.B OLDPWD
environment variable shall also be changed to the value of the
old working directory, that is, the current working directory immediately
prior to the call to change directory
.RB ( cd ).
The shell variable
.B CDPATH
defines the search path for the directory containing
.IR arg .
Alternative directory names are separated by a colon
.RB ( : ).
The default
path is
.B null
(specifying the current directory). The current directory
is specified by a null path name, which can appear immediately after the
equal sign or between the colon delimiters anywhere else in the path list.
If
.I arg
begins with a `\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or `\fB\&.\|.\fR', then
the search path is not used. Otherwise, each directory in the path is
searched for
.IR arg .
If unsuccessful,
.B cd
attempts to change
directories to the pathname formed by the concatenation of the value of PWD,
a slash character, and arg.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Handles the operation dot-dot (\fB\&..\fR) logically. Symbolic link
components are
.B not
resolved before dot-dot components are processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.RB "Handles the operand dot-dot physically. Symbolic link components" " are"
resolved before dot-dot components are processed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If both
.B -L
and
.B -P
options are specified, the last option to be
invoked is used and the other is ignored. If neither
.B -L
nor
.BR -P
is specified, the operand is handled dot-dot logically.
.sp
.LP
The second form of
.B cd
substitutes the string
.I new
for the string
.I old
in the current directory name,
.B PWD
and tries to change to
this new directory.
.sp
.LP
The
.B cd
command cannot be executed by
.BR rksh .
Because a new
process is created to execute each command,
.B cd
would be ineffective if
it were written as a normal command; therefore, it is recognized by and is
internal to the Korn shell. (See
.BR pwd (1),
.BR sh (1),
and
.BR chdir (2)).
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I directory
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An absolute or relative pathname of the directory that becomes the new
working directory. The interpretation of a relative pathname by \fBcd\fR
depends on the
.B CDPATH
environment variable.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
If a non-empty directory name from
.B CDPATH
is used, an absolute
pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output as
follows:
.sp
.LP
\fB"%s\en"\fR, <\fInew directory\fR>
.sp
.LP
Otherwise, there is no output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cd :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CDPATH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A colon-separated list of pathnames that refer to directories. If the
.I directory
operand does not begin with a slash
.B "( /"
.B )
character, and the first component is not dot or dot-dot,
.B cd
searches
for
.I directory
relative to each directory named in the
.BR CDPATH
variable, in the order listed. The new working directory sets to the first
matching directory found. An empty string in place of a directory pathname
represents the current directory. If
.B CDPATH
is not set, it is treated
as if it were an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOME
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The name of the home directory, used when no
.I directory
operand is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B OLDPWD
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A pathname of the previous working directory, used by
.BR cd- .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PWD
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A pathname of the current working directory, set by
.B cd
after it has
changed to that directory.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR cd :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The directory was successfully changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "csh, ksh, sh"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR pwd (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR chdir (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
