'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ckdate 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckdate, errdate, helpdate, valdate \- prompts for and validates a date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBckdate\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/errdate\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/helpdate\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/valdate\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR] \fIinput\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ckdate
utility prompts a user and validates the response. It defines,
among other things, a prompt message whose response should be a date, text for
help and error messages, and a default value (which will be returned if the user
responds with a  RETURN). The user response must match the defined format for a
date.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted
automatically. Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is
stripped. The
.B -W
option cancels the automatic formatting. When a tilde is
placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text will be
inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be
displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as
defined under
.BR NOTES )
will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
Three visual tool modules are linked to the
.B ckdate
command. They are
.B errdate
(which formats and displays an error message), \fBhelpdate\fR
(which formats and displays a help message), and
.B valdate
(which validates a
response). These modules should be used in conjunction with FML objects. In this
instance, the FML object defines the prompt. When
.B format
is defined in the
.B errdate
and
.B helpdate
modules, the messages will describe the expected
format.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I default
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the default value as
.IR default .
The default does not have to meet
the format criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I error
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the error message as
.IR error .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I format
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies the format against which the input will be verified. Possible formats
and their definitions are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %b "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
abbreviated month name (jan, feb, mar)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %B "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
full month name
.B %d
= day of month (01 - 31)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %D "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
date as %m/%d/%y (the default format)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %e "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
day of month (1 - 31; single digits are preceded by a blank)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %h "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.RB "abbreviated month name, identical to" " %b%"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %m "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
month number (01 - 12)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %y "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
year within century (for instance, 89)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR %Y "  ="
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
year as
.B CCYY
(for instance, 1989)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -h " help"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the help messages as
.BR help .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -k " pid"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that process
.B ID
.I pid
is to be sent a signal if the user
chooses to abort.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " prompt"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the prompt message as
.IR prompt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " signal"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that the process
.B ID
.I pid
defined with the
.B -k
option
is to be sent signal
.B signal
when quit is chosen.  If no signal is
specified,
.B SIGTERM
is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -W " width"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line
length of
.BR width .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Input to be verified against format criteria.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B EOF
on input, or negative width on
.B -W
option, or usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
User termination (quit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Garbled format argument.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for
.B ckdate
is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter the date [?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default error message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR - Please enter a date.  Format is <format>.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default help message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Please enter a date. Format is <format>.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed),
.B q
is returned along with the
return code
.BR 3 .
The
.B valdate
module will not produce any output. It
returns zero for success and non-zero for failure.
