'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ckitem 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckitem, erritem, helpitem \- build a menu; prompt for and return a menu
item
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBckitem\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-uno\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR]
     [ [\fB-i\fR \fIinvis\fR] [,].\|.\|.] [\fB-m\fR \fImax\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fI error\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
     [\fIchoice\fR [.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/erritem\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/helpitem\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ckitem
utility builds a menu and prompts the user to choose one
item from a menu of items. It then  verifies the response. Options for this
command define, among other things, a prompt message whose response will be
a menu item, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which
will be returned if the user responds with a carriage return).
.sp
.LP
By default, the menu is formatted so that each item is prepended by a
number and is printed in columns across the terminal. Column length is
determined by the longest choice. Items are alphabetized.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted
automatically. Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is
stripped. The
.B -W
option cancels the automatic formatting. When a tilde
is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text
will be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default
text to be displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message
(as defined under
.BR NOTES )
will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
Two visual tool modules are linked to the
.B ckitem
command. They are
.B erritem
(which formats and displays an error message) and
.B helpitem
(which formats and displays a help message). These modules
should be used in conjunction with
.B FML
objects. In this instance, the
.B FML
object defines the prompt. When
.I choice
is defined in these
modules, the messages will describe the available menu choice (or
choices).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fI default\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the default value as
.IR default .
The default is not validated and
so does not have to meet any criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -e " error"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the error message as
.IR " error" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI filename\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define a file,
.IR filename ,
which contains a list of menu items to be
displayed. (The format of this file is:
.BR token<tab>description .
Lines
beginning with a pound sign (#) are designated as comments and ignored.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -h " help"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the help messages as
.IR " help" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -i " invis"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define invisible menu choices (those which will not be printed in the
menu). (For example, ``all'' used as an invisible choice would mean it is a
legal option but does not appear in the menu. Any number of invisible
choices may be defined.) Invisible choices should be made known to a user
either in the prompt or in a help message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -k " pid"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that the process
.B ID
.I pid
is to be sent a signal if the
user chooses to abort.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -l " label"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define a label,
.IR label ,
to print above the menu.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " max"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the maximum number of menu choices that the user can choose. The
default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that menu items should not be displayed in alphabetical order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that only one menu token will be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " prompt"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Define the prompt message as
.IR prompt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " signal"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that process
.B ID
.I pid
defined with the
.B -k
option is
to be sent signal
.I " signal"
when quit is chosen. If no signal is
specified,
.B SIGTERM
is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that menu items should be displayed as an unnumbered list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -W " width"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line
length of
.IR width .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I choice
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Define menu items. Items should be separated by white space or newline.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B EOF
on input, or negative width on
.B -W
option, or inability to
open file on
.B -f
option, or usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
User termination (quit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
No choices from which to choose.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The user may input the number of the menu item if choices are numbered or
as much of the string required for a unique identification of the item. Long
menus are paged with 10 items per page.
.sp
.LP
When menu entries are defined both in a file (by using the
.B -f
option)
and also on the command line, they are usually combined alphabetically.
However, if the
.B -n
option is used to suppress  alphabetical ordering,
then the entries defined in the file are shown first, followed by the
options defined on the command line.
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for
.B ckitem
is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter selection [?,??,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
One question mark will give a help message and then redisplay the prompt.
Two question marks will give a help message and then redisplay the menu
label, the menu and the prompt.
.sp
.LP
The default error message if you typed a number is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Bad numeric choice specification
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default error message if you typed a string is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Entry does not match available menu selection. Enter the number
of the menu item you wish to select, the token which is associated
with the menu item, or a partial string which uniquely identifies the
token for the menu item. Enter ?? to reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default help message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter the number of the menu item you wish to select, the token
which is associated with the menu item, or a partial string which
uniquely identifies the token for the menu item. Enter ? to
reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed),
.B q
is returned along
with the return code
.BR 3 .
