'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ckstr 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckstr, errstr, helpstr, valstr \- display a prompt; verify and return a
string answer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBckstr\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [ [\fB-r\fR \fIregexp\fR] [.\|.\|.]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR]
     [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB- s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/errstr\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR]
     [ [\fB-r\fR \fIregexp\fR] [.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/helpstr\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR]
     [ [\fB-r\fR \fIregexp\fR] [.\|.\|.]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/valstr\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR] [ [\fB-r\fR \fIregexp\fR] [.\|.\|.]] \fIinput\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ckstr
utility prompts a user and validates the response. It
defines, among other things, a prompt message whose response should be a
string, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which are
returned if the user responds with a RETURN).
.sp
.LP
The answer returned from this command must match the defined regular
expression and be no longer than the length specified. If no regular
expression is given, valid input must be a string with a length less than or
equal to the length defined with no internal, leading or trailing white
space. If no length is defined, the length is not checked.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 79 characters and are formatted
automatically. Tabs and newlines are removed after a single white space
character in a message definition, but spaces are not removed. When a tilde
is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text
will be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default
text to be displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message
(as defined under EXAMPLES) is displayed.
.sp
.LP
Three visual tool modules are linked to the
.B ckstr
command. They are
.B errstr
(which formats and displays an error message on the standard
output),
.B helpstr
(which formats and displays a help message on the
standard output), and
.B valstr
(which validates a response).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I default
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the default value as
.IR default .
The default is not validated
and so does not have to meet any criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I error
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the error message as
.IR " error" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I help
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the help message as
.IR " help" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.I pid
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that process
.B ID
.I pid
is to be sent a signal if the
user chooses to quit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I length
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies the maximum length of the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I prompt
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the prompt message as
.IR prompt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that
.B quit
will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I regexp
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies a regular expression,
.IR " regexp" ,
against which the input
should be validated. May include white space. If multiple expressions are
defined, the answer need match only one of them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I signal
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that the process
.B ID
.I pid
defined with the
.BR -k
option is to be sent signal
.I signal
when quit is chosen. If no signal
is specified,
.B SIGTERM
is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -W
.I width
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line
length of
.IR width .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Input to be verified against format length and/or regular expression
criteria.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Default prompt
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for
.B ckstr
is:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBckstr\fR
Enter an appropriate value [?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Default error message
.sp
.LP
The default error message is dependent upon the type of validation
involved. The user will be told either that the length or the pattern
matching failed. The default error message is:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/sadm/bin/errstr\fR
ERROR: Please enter a string which contains no embedded,
leading or trailing spaces or tabs.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Default help message
.sp
.LP
The default help message is also dependent upon the type of validation
involved. If a regular expression has been defined, the message is:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/sadm/bin/helpstr \fB-r\fB regexp\fR
Please enter a string which matches the following pattern:
regexp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Other messages define the length requirement and the definition of a
string.

.LP
.B Example 4
Using the quit option
.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed),
.B q
is returned along
with the return code
.BR 3 .
Quit input gets a trailing newline.

.LP
.B Example 5
Using the valstr module
.sp
.LP
The
.B valstr
module will produce a usage message on stderr. It returns
.B 0
for success and non-zero for failure.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/sadm/bin/valstr\fR
usage: valstr [\fB-l\fR length] [[\fB-r\fR regexp] [\|.\|.\|.\|]] input
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B EOF
on input, or negative width on
.B -W
option,  or usage
error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
User termination (quit).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5)
