'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cktime 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cktime, errtime, helptime, valtime \- display a prompt; verify and return a
time of day
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcktime\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/errtime\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/helptime\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/valtime\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR] \fIinput\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cktime
utility prompts a user and validates the response. It
defines, among other things, a prompt message whose response should be a
time, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which is
returned if the user responds with a RETURN). The user response must match
the defined format for the time of day.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted
automatically. Any white space used in the definition (including
.B NEWLINE)
is stripped. The
.B -W
option cancels the automatic
formatting. When a tilde is placed at the beginning or end of a message
definition, the default text is inserted at that point, allowing both custom
text and the default text to be displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message
(as defined under
.BR NOTES )
is displayed.
.sp
.LP
Three visual tool modules are linked to the
.B cktime
command. They are
.B errtime
(which formats and displays an error message),
.B helptime
(which formats and displays a help message), and
.B valtime
(which
validates a response). These modules should be used in conjunction with
.B FML
objects. In this instance, the
.B FML
object defines the
prompt. When \fBformat\fR is defined in the
.B errtime
and \fBhelptime\fR
modules, the messages will describe the expected format.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " default"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the default value as
.IR default .
The default is not validated
and so does not have to meet any criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I error
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the error message as
.IR error .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I format
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies the format against which the input will be verified. Possible
formats and their definitions are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB%H\fR  =  hour (00 - 23)
\fB%I\fR  =  hour (00 - 12)
\fB%M\fR  =  minute (00 - 59)
\fB%p\fR  =  ante meridian or post meridian
\fB%r\fR  =  time as \fB%I:%M:%S %p\fR
\fB%R\fR  =  time as \fB%H:%M\fR (the default format)
\fB%S\fR  =  seconds (00 - 59)
\fB%T\fR  =  time as \fB%H:%M:%S\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I help
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the help messages as
.IR help .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -k " pid"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that process
.B ID
.I pid
is to be sent a signal if the
user chooses to abort.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " prompt"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines the prompt message as
.IR prompt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I signal
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that the process
.B ID
.I pid
defined with the
.BR -k
option is to be sent signal
.I signal
when quit is chosen.  If no signal
is specified,
.B SIGTERM
is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -W " width"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line
length of
.IR width .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Input to be verified against format criteria.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B EOF
on input, or negative width on
.B -W
option,  or usage error
\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
User termination (quit) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Garbled format argument.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for
.B cktime
is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter a time of day [?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default error message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Please enter the time of day.  Format is <format>.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default help message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Please enter the time of day.  Format is <format>.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed),
.B q
is returned along
with the return code
.BR 3 .
The
.B valtime
module will not produce any
output. It returns
.B 0
for success and non-zero for failure.
