'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cmp 1 "19 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cmp \- compare two files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcmp\fR [\fB-l\fR | \fB-s\fR] \fIfile1\fR \fIfile2\fR [\fIskip1\fR] [\fIskip2\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cmp
utility compares two files.
.B cmp
writes no output if the
files are the same. Under default options, if they differ, it writes to
standard output the byte and line numbers at which the first difference
occurred. Bytes and lines are numbered beginning with 1. If one file is an
initial subsequence of the other, that fact is noted.
.I skip1
and
\fIskip2\fR are initial byte offsets into \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR
respectively, and can be either octal or decimal. A leading 0 denotes
octal.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Write the byte number (decimal) and the differing bytes (octal) for each
difference.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Write nothing for differing files. Return exit status only.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile1\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A path name of the first file to be compared. If \fIfile1\fR is \fB\(mi\fR,
the standard input is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile2\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A path name of the second file to be compared. If \fIfile2\fR is
\fB\(mi\fR, the standard input is used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If both \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR refer to standard input or refer to the
same
.B FIFO
special, block special or character special file, an error
results.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR cmp
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Comparing Files Byte for Byte
.sp
.LP
The following example does a byte for byte comparison of \fIfile1\fR and
.IR file2 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcmp file1 file2 0 1024\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
It skips the first 1024 bytes in \fIfile2\fR before starting the
comparison.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cmp :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following error values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The files are identical.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The files are different. This includes the case where one file is identical
to the first part of the other.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR comm (1),
.BR diff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
