'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH compress 1 "13 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
compress, uncompress, zcat \- compress, uncompress files or display expanded
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcompress\fR [\fB-fv/\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbits\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcompress\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-fv\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbits\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuncompress\fR [\fB-fv\fR] [\fB-c | -/\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBzcat\fR [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "compress"
.sp
.LP
The
.B compress
utility attempts to reduce the size of the named files by
using adaptive Lempel-Ziv coding. Except when the output is to the standard
output, each file is replaced by one with the extension \fB\&.Z\fR, while
keeping the same ownership modes, change times and modification times, ACLs, and
extended attributes. The compress utility also attempt to set the owner and
group of \fIfile\fB\&.z\fR to the owner and group of file, but does not fail
if this cannot be done. If appending the \fB\&.Z\fR to the file pathname would
make the pathname exceed
.B 1023
bytes, the command fails. If no files are
specified, the standard input is compressed to the standard output.
.sp
.LP
The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of the input, the number
of
.I bits
per code, and the distribution of common substrings. Typically,
text such as source code or English is reduced by 50\(mi60%. Compression is
generally much better than that achieved by Huffman coding (as used in
.BR pack (1))
and it takes less time to compute. The
.I bits
parameter
specified during compression is encoded within the compressed file, along with a
magic number to ensure that neither decompression of random data nor
recompression of compressed data is subsequently allowed.
.SS "uncompress"
.sp
.LP
The
.B uncompress
utility restores files to their original state after they
have been compressed using the
.B compress
utility. If no files are
specified, the standard input is uncompressed to the standard output.
.sp
.LP
This utility supports the uncompressing of any files produced by
.BR compress .
For files produced by
.B compress
on other systems,
.B uncompress
supports 9- to 16-bit compression (see
.BR -b ).
.SS "zcat"
.sp
.LP
The
.B zcat
utility writes to standard output the uncompressed form of files
that have been compressed using
.BR compress .
It is the equivalent of
.BR uncompress-c .
Input files are not affected.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I bits
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Sets the upper limit (in bits) for common substring codes.
.I bits
must be
between 9 and 16 (16 is the default). Lowering the number of bits result in
larger, less compressed files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Writes to the standard output; no files are changed and no \fB\&.Z\fR files are
created. The behavior of
.B zcat
is identical to that of `\fBuncompress\fR
.BR -c '.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
When compressing, forces compression of
.IR file ,
even if it does not
actually reduce the size of the file, or if the corresponding
\fIfile\fB\&.Z\fR file already exists.
.sp
If the
.B -f
option is not specified, and the process is not running in the
background, prompts to verify whether an existing file should be overwritten. If
the response is affirmative, the existing file is overwritten. When
uncompressing, does not prompt for overwriting files. If the
.B -f
option is
not specified, and the process is not running in the background, prompts to
verify whether an existing file should be overwritten. If the standard input is
not a terminal and
.B -f
is not specified, writes a diagnostic message to
standard error and exits with a status greater than
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Verbose. Writes to standard error messages concerning the percentage reduction
or expansion of each file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -/
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
When compressing or decompressing, copies any extended system attributes
associated with the source file to the target file and copies any extended
system attributes associated with extended attributes of the source file to the
corresponding extended attributes associated with the target file. If any
extended system attributes cannot be copied, the original file is retained, a
diagnostic is written to
.BR stderr ,
and the final exit status is
.BR non-zero .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of a file to be compressed by
.BR compress ,
uncompressed by
.BR uncompress ,
or whose uncompressed form is written to standard out by
.BR zcat .
If \fIfile\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, or if no \fIfile\fR is specified, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR compress ,
.BR uncompress ,
and
.B zcat
when encountering files greater than or equal
to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR compress ,
.BR uncompress ,
and
.BR zcat :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.LP
Affirmative responses are processed using the extended regular expression
defined for the
.B yesexpr
keyword in the
.B LC_MESSAGES
category of the
user's locale. The locale specified in the
.B LC_COLLATE
category defines the
behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character collating elements
used in the expression defined for
.BR yesexpr .
The locale specified in
.B LC_CTYPE
determines the locale for interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data a characters, the behavior of character classes used in the expression
defined for the
.BR yesexpr .
See
.BR locale (5).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following error values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
One or more files were not compressed because they would have increased in size
(and the
.B -f
option was not specified).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ln (1),
.BR pack (1),
.BR fgetattr (3C),
.BR fsetattr (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR locale (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Usage: compress [-fv/] [-b
\fIbits\fR] [\fIfile\fR\|.\|.\|. ]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
.B compress c [-fv] [-b
\fIbits\fR] [\fIfile\fR\|.\|.\|. ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid options were specified on the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUsage: uncompress [-fv] [-c | -/] [\fIfile\fB].\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid options were specified on the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Missing maxbits
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maxbits must follow
.BR -b ,
or invalid maxbits, not a numeric value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR file :
not in compressed format\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file specified to
.B uncompress
has not been compressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile\fR: compressed with \fIxx\fRbits, can only handle \fIyy\fRbits\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B file
was compressed by a program that could deal with more
.IR bits
than the compress code on this machine. Recompress the file with smaller
.IR bits .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR file :
already has .\|Z suffix -- no change\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is assumed to be already compressed. Rename the file and try again.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR file :
already exists; do you wish to overwrite (y or n)?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Respond
.B y
if you want the output file to be replaced;
.B n
if not.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uncompress: corrupt input
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A
.B SIGSEGV
violation was detected, which usually means that the input file
is corrupted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCompression:\fIxx.xx\fB%\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Percentage of the input saved by compression. (Relevant only for
.BR -v .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "- - not a regular file: unchanged
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When the input file is not a regular file, (such as a directory), it is left
unaltered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB- - has \fIxx\fR other links: unchanged\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The input file has links; it is left unchanged. See
.BR ln (1)
for more
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B - - file unchanged
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No savings are achieved by compression. The input remains uncompressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "- -filename too long to tack on .Z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path name is too long to append the \fB\&.Z\fR suffix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "- -cannot preserve extended attributes. file unchanged
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Extended system attributes could not be copied.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Although compressed files are compatible between machines with large memory,
.B -b
12 should be used for file transfer to architectures with a small
process data space (64KB or less).
.sp
.LP
.B compress
should be more flexible about the existence of the \fB\&.\|Z\fR
suffix.
