'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cpio 1 "3 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-i\fR [\fB-bBcdfkmPrsStuvV6@/\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR] [\fB-E\fR \fIfile\fR]
     [\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fR [\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR]] [\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR] [\fIpattern\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-o\fR [\fB-aABcLPvV@/\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR \fIfile\fR [\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-adlLmPuvV@/\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR] \fIdirectory\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpio
command copies files into and out of a
.B cpio
archive.
The
.B cpio
archive can span multiple volumes. The
.BR -i ,
.BR -o ,
and
.B -p
options select the action to be performed. The following list
describes each of the actions. These actions are mutually exclusive.
.SS "Copy In Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio -i\fR (copy in) extracts files from the standard input, which
is assumed to be the product of a previous
.B "cpio -o"
command. Only
files with names that match one of the
.IR pattern "s are selected. See"
.BR sh (1)
and OPERANDS for more information about
.IR pattern .
Extracted
files are conditionally copied into the current directory tree, based on the
options described below. The permissions of the files are those of the
previous
.B "cpio -o"
command. The owner and group are the same as the
.RB "current user, unless the current user has the" " {PRIV_FILE_CHOWN_SELF}"
privilege. See
.BR chown (2).
If this is the case, owner and group are the
same as those resulting from the previous
.B "cpio -o"
command. Notice that
if
.B "cpio -i"
tries to create a file that already exists and the
existing file is the same age or younger
.RB ( newer ),
\fBcpio\fR outputs a
warning message and not replace the file. The
.B -u
option can be used to
unconditionally overwrite the existing file.
.SS "Copy Out Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio -o\fR (copy out) reads a list of file path names from the
standard input and copies those files to the standard output, together with
path name and status information in the form of a
.B cpio
archive. Output
is padded to an 8192-byte boundary by default or to the user-specified block
size (with the
.B -B
or
.B -C
options) or to some device-dependent
block size where necessary (as with the CTC tape).
.SS "Pass Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio -p\fR (pass) reads a list of file path names from the
standard input and conditionally copies those files into the destination
directory tree, based on the options described below.
.sp
.LP
If the underlying file system of the source file supports detection of
holes as reported by
.BR pathconf (2),
the file is a sparse file, and the
destination file is seekable, then holes in sparse files are preserved in
pass mode, otherwise holes are filled with zeros.
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR assumes four-byte words.
.sp
.LP
If, when writing to a character device (\fB-o\fR) or reading from a
character device
.RB ( -i ),
\fBcpio\fR reaches the end of a medium (such as
the end of a diskette), and the
.B -O
and
.B -I
options are not used,
\fBcpio\fR prints the following message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
To continue, type device/file name when ready.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To continue, you must replace the medium and type the character special
device name (\fB/dev/rdiskette\fR for example) and press RETURN. You might
want to continue by directing
.B cpio
to use a different device. For
example, if you have two floppy drives you might want to switch between them
so
.B cpio
can proceed while you are changing the floppies. Press RETURN
to cause the
.B cpio
process to exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(copy in) Reads an archive from the standard input and conditionally
extracts the files contained in it and places them into the current
directory tree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(copy out) Reads a list of file path names from the standard input and
copies those files to the standard output in the form of a
.BR cpio
archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(pass) Reads a list of file path names from the standard input and
conditionally copies those files into the destination directory tree.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options can be appended in any sequence to the
.BR -i ,
.BR -o ,
or
.B -p
options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Resets access times of input files after they have been copied, making
\fBcpio\fR's access invisible. Access times are not reset for linked files
when
.B "cpio -pla"
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Appends files to an archive. The
.B -A
option requires the
.BR -O
option. Valid only with archives that are files, or that are on floppy
diskettes or hard disk partitions. The effect on files that are linked in
the existing portion of the archive is unpredictable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Reverses the order of the bytes within each word. Use only with the
\fB-i\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -B
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Blocks input/output 5120 bytes to the record. The default buffer size is
8192 bytes when this and the
.B -C
options are not used.
.B -B
does
not apply to the
.B -p
(pass) option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Reads or writes header information in
.B ASCII
character form for
portability. There are no
.B UID
or
.B GID
restrictions associated
with this header format. Use this option between SVR4-based machines, or the
\fB-H odc\fR option between unknown machines. The \fB-c\fR option
implies the use of expanded device numbers, which are only supported on
SVR4-based systems. When transferring files between SunOS 4 or Interactive
UNIX and the Solaris 2.6 Operating environment or compatible versions, use
.BR "-H odc" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Blocks input/output \fIbufsize\fR bytes to the record, where \fIbufsize\fR
is replaced by a positive integer. The default buffer size is 8192 bytes
when this and
.B -B
options are not used.
.B -C
does not apply to the
\fB-p\fR (pass) option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Creates directories as needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-E\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies an input file (\fIfile\fR) that contains a list of filenames to
be extracted from the archive (one filename per line).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Copies in all files except those in \fIpattern\fRs. See OPERANDS for a
description of
.IR pattern .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Reads or writes header information in
.I header
format. Always use this
option or the
.B -c
option when the origin and the destination machines
are different types. This option is mutually exclusive with options \fB-c\fR
and
.BR -6 .
.sp
Valid values for
.I header
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bar
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
\fBbar\fR head and format. Used only with the \fB-i\fR option ( read
only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcrc\fR | \fBCRC\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
\fBASCII\fR header with expanded device numbers and an additional per-file
checksum. There are no
.B UID
or
.B GID
restrictions associated with
this header format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B odc
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
\fBASCII\fR header with small device numbers. This is the IEEE/P1003 Data
Interchange Standard cpio header and format. It has the widest range of
portability of any of the header formats. It is the official format for
transferring files between POSIX-conforming systems (see
.BR standards (5)).
Use this format to communicate with SunOS 4 and
Interactive UNIX. This header format allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to
262143 to be stored in the header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtar\fR | \fBTAR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
\fBtar\fR header and format. This is an older \fBtar\fR header format that
allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to 2097151 to be stored in the header.
It is provided for the reading of legacy archives only, that is, in
conjunction with option
.BR -i .
.sp
Specifying this archive format with option
.B -o
has the same effect as
specifying the "ustar" format: the output archive is in \fBustar\fR format,
and must be read using
.BR "-H ustar" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBustar\fR | \fBUSTAR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
IEEE/P1003 Data Interchange Standard tar header and format. This header
format allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to 2097151 to be stored in the
header.
.RE

Files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs greater than the limit stated above
are archived with the
.B UID
and
.B GID
of
.BR 60001 .
To transfer a
large file (8 Gb \(em 1 byte), the header format can be
.BR tar|TAR ,
.BR ustar|USTAR ,
or
.B odc
only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-I\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Reads the contents of \fIfile\fR as an input archive, instead of the
standard input. If \fIfile\fR is a character special device, and the current
medium has been completely read, replace the medium and press RETURN to
.RB "continue to the next medium. This option is used only with the" " -i"
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Attempts to skip corrupted file headers and I/O errors that might be
encountered. If you want to copy files from a medium that is corrupted or
out of sequence, this option lets you read only those files with good
headers. For
.B cpio
archives that contain other
.B cpio
archives, if
an error is encountered,
.B cpio
.RB "can terminate prematurely." " cpio"
finds the next good header, which can be one for a smaller archive, and
terminate when the smaller archive's trailer is encountered. Use only with
the
.B -i
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
In pass mode, makes hard links between the source and destination whenever
possible. If the
.B -L
option is also specified, the hard link is to the
file referred to by the symbolic link. Otherwise, the hard link is to the
symbolic link itself. Use only with the
.B -p
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Follows symbolic links. If a symbolic link to a directory is encountered,
archives the directory referred to by the link, using the name of the link.
Otherwise, archives the file referred to by the link, using the name of the
link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Retains previous file modification time. This option is ineffective on
directories that are being copied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Defines a
.I message
to use when switching media. When you use the
\fB-O\fR or \fB-I\fR options and specify a character special device, you can
use this option to define the message that is printed when you reach the end
of the medium. One
.B %d
can be placed in
.I message
to print the
sequence number of the next medium needed to continue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-O\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Directs the output of
.B cpio
to
.IR file ,
instead of the standard
output. If \fIfile\fR is a character special device and the current medium
is full, replace the medium and type a carriage return to continue to the
next medium. Use only with the
.B -o
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Preserves \fBACL\fRs. If the option is used for output, existing \fBACL\fRs
are written along with other attributes, except for extended attributes, to
the standard output. \fBACL\fRs are created as special files with a special
file type. If the option is used for input, existing \fBACL\fRs are
extracted along with other attributes from standard input. The option
recognizes the special file type. Notice that errors occurs if a \fBcpio\fR
archive with \fBACL\fRs is extracted by previous versions of
.BR cpio .
This option should not be used with the
.B -c
.RB "option, as" " ACL"
support might not be present on all systems, and hence is not portable. Use
\fBASCII\fR headers for portability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Interactively renames files. If the user types a carriage return alone, the
file is skipped. If the user types a ``.'', the original pathname is
retained. Not available with
.BR "cpio -p" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Reassigns ownership and group information for each file to user ID. (ID
must be a valid login ID from the
.B passwd
database.) This option is
valid only when id is the invoking user or the super-user. See
.BR NOTES .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Swaps bytes within each half word.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Swaps halfwords within each word.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Prints a table of contents of the input. If any file in the table of
contents has extended attributes, these are also listed. No files are
created.
.B -t
and
.B -V
are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Copies unconditionally. Normally, an older file is not replaced a newer
file with the same name, although an older directory updates a newer
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Verbose. Prints a list of file and extended attribute names. When used with
the
.B -t
option, the table of contents looks like the output of an
\fBls -l\fR command (see
.BR ls (1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Special verbose. Prints a dot for each file read or written. Useful to
assure the user that
.B cpio
is working without printing out all file
names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -6
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Processes a UNIX System Sixth Edition archive format file. Use only with
the
.B -i
option. This option is mutually exclusive with
.B -c
and
.BR -H .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -@
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Includes extended attributes in archive. By default,
.B cpio
does not
place extended attributes in the archive. With this flag,
.B cpio
looks
for extended attributes on the files to be placed in the archive and add
them, as regular files, to the archive. The extended attribute files go in
the archive as special files with special file types. When the
.B -@
flag
is used with
.B -i
or
.BR -p ,
it instructs
.B cpio
to restore
extended attribute data along with the normal file data. Extended attribute
files can only be extracted from an archive as part of a normal file
extract. Attempts to explicitly extract attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -/
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Includes extended system attributes in archive. By default,
.B cpio
does
not place extended system attributes in the archive. With this flag,
\fBcpio\fR looks for extended system attributes on the files to be placed in
the archive and add them, as regular files, to the archive. The extended
attribute files go in the archive as special files with special file types.
When the
.B -/
flag is used with
.B -i
or
.BR -p ,
it instructs
\fBcpio\fR to restore extended system attribute data along with the normal
file data. Extended system attribute files can only be extracted from an
archive as part of a normal file extract. Attempts to explicitly extract
attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I directory
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A path name of an existing directory to be used as the target of
.BR cpio
.BR -p .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pattern
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Expressions making use of a pattern-matching notation similar to that used
by the shell (see
.BR sh (1))
for filename pattern matching, and similar to
regular expressions. The following metacharacters are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B *
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Matches any string, including the empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Matches any single character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB[.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of characters separated
by `\(mi' matches any symbol between the pair (inclusive), as defined by the
system default collating sequence. If the first character following the
opening
.B `['
is a
.BR `!' ,
the results are unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The ! (exclamation point) means
.IR not .
.RB "For example, the" " !abc*"
pattern would exclude all files that begin with
.BR abc .
.RE

In
.IR pattern ,
metacharacters
.BR ? ,
.BR * ,
and
\fB[\fR\|.\|.\|.\fB]\fR match the slash (\fB/\fR) character, and backslash
(\fB\e\fR) is an escape character. Multiple cases of \fIpattern\fR can be
specified and if no
.I pattern
is specified, the default for
\fIpattern\fR is \fB*\fR (that is, select all files).
.sp
Each pattern must be enclosed in double quotes. Otherwise, the name of a
file in the current directory might be used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR cpio
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following examples show three uses of
.BR cpio .
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using standard input
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls | cpio -oc > ../newfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When standard input is directed through a pipe to
.BR "cpio -o" ,
as
in the example above, it groups the files so they can be directed (>) to a
single file (\fB\&../newfile\fR). The \fB-c\fR option insures that the file
is portable to other machines (as would the
.B -H
option). Instead of
.BR ls (1),
you could use
.BR find (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR cat (1),
and
so on, to pipe a list of names to
.BR cpio .
You could direct the output to
a device instead of a file.

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Extracting files into directories
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat newfile | cpio -icd "memo/a1" "memo/b*"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example,
.B "cpio -i"
uses the output file of
.BR cpio
\fB-o\fR (directed through a pipe with
.BR cat ),
extracts those files that
match the patterns (\fBmemo/a1\fR,
.BR memo/b* ),
creates directories below
the current directory as needed (\fB-d\fR option), and places the files in
the appropriate directories. The
.B -c
option is used if the input file
was created with a portable header. If no patterns were given, all files
from \fBnewfile\fR would be placed in the directory.

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Copying or linking files to another directory
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfind . -depth -print | cpio -pdlmv newdir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example,
.B "cpio -p"
takes the file names piped to it and
copies or links (\fB-l\fR option) those files to another directory,
.BR newdir .
The
.B -d
option says to create directories as needed. The
\fB-m\fR option says to retain the modification time. (It is important to
use the
.B -depth
option of
.BR find (1)
to generate path names for
.BR cpio .
This eliminates problems that
.B cpio
could have trying to
create files under read-only directories.) The destination directory,
.BR newdir ,
must exist.

.sp
.LP
Notice that when you use
.B cpio
in conjunction with
.BR find ,
if you
use the
.B -L
option with
.BR cpio ,
you must use the \fB-follow\fR
option with \fBfind\fR and vice versa. Otherwise, there are undesirable
results.
.sp
.LP
For multi-reel archives, dismount the old volume, mount the new one, and
continue to the next tape by typing the name of the next device (probably
the same as the first reel). To stop, type a RETURN and
.B cpio
ends.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cpio :
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR TZ ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TMPDIR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
\fBcpio\fR creates its temporary file in \fB/var/tmp\fR by default.
Otherwise, it uses the directory specified by
.BR TMPDIR .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR cat (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR pax (1),
.BR setfacl (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR chown (2),
.BR archives.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR fsattr (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The maximum path name length allowed in a
.B cpio
archive is determined
by the header type involved. The following table shows the proper value for
each supported archive header type.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
Header typeCommand line optionsMaximum path name length
BINARY"\fB-o\fR"256
POSIX"\fB-oH\fR odc"256
ASCII"\fB-oc\fR"1023
CRC"\fB-oH\fR crc"1023
USTAR"\fB-oH\fR ustar"255
.TE

.sp
.LP
When the command line options "\fB-o -H\fR \fBtar\fR" are specified,
the archive created is of type
.BR USTAR .
This means that it is an error
to read this same archive using the command line options "\fB-i -H\fR
\fBtar\fR". The archive should be read using the command line options
"\fB-i -H\fR \fBustar\fR". The options "\fB-i -H\fR \fBtar\fR"
refer to an older tar archive format.
.sp
.LP
An error message is output for files whose
.B UID
or
.B GID
are too
large to fit in the selected header format. Use
.B "-H crc"
or
\fB-c\fR to create archives that allow all \fBUID\fR or \fBGID\fR values.
.sp
.LP
Only the super-user can copy special files.
.sp
.LP
Blocks are reported in 512-byte quantities.
.sp
.LP
If a file has
.B 000
permissions, contains more than 0 characters of
data, and the user is not root, the file is not saved or restored.
.sp
.LP
When cpio is invoked in
.B "Copy In"
or
.B "Pass Mode"
by a user with
\fB{PRIV_FILE_CHOWN_SELF}\fR privilege, and in particular on a system where
\fB{_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED}\fR is not in effect (effectively granting this
privilege to all users where not overridden), extracted or copied files can
end up with owners and groups determined by those of the original archived
files, which can differ from the invoking user's. This might not be what the
user intended. The
.B -R
option can be used to retain file ownership, if
desired, if you specify the user's id.
.sp
.LP
The inode number stored in the header (\fB/usr/include/archives.h\fR) is an
unsigned short, which is 2 bytes. This limits the range of inode numbers
from
.B 0
to
.BR 65535 .
Files which are hard linked must fall in this
inode range. This could be a problem when moving
.B cpio
archives between
different vendors' machines.
.sp
.LP
You must use the same blocking factor when you retrieve or copy files from
the tape to the hard disk as you did when you copied files from the hard
disk to the tape. Therefore, you must specify the
.B -B
or
.BR -C
option.
.sp
.LP
During
.B -p
and
.B -o
processing,
.B cpio
buffers the file list
presented on stdin in a temporary file.
.sp
.LP
The new
.BR pax (1)
format, with a command that supports it (for example,
.BR tar ),
should be used for large files. The
.B cpio
command is no
longer part of the current POSIX standard and is deprecated in favor of
.BR pax .
