'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crontab 1 "6 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crontab \- user crontab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR \fB-e\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR \fB-l\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR \fB-r\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR \fB-e\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR \fB-l\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR \fB-r\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR \fB-e\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR \fB-l\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR \fB-r\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B crontab
utility manages a user's access with
.B cron
(see
.BR cron (1M))
.RB "by copying, creating, listing, and removing" " crontab"
files. If invoked without options,
.B crontab
copies the specified file,
or the standard input if no file is specified, into a directory that holds
all users' crontabs.
.sp
.LP
If
.B crontab
is invoked with
.IR filename ,
this overwrites an existing
\fBcrontab\fR entry for the user that invokes it.
.SS "\fBcrontab\fR Access Control"
.sp
.LP
Users: Access to
.B crontab
is allowed:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if the user's name appears in
.BR /etc/cron.d/cron.allow .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.allow
does not exist and the user's name is not in
.BR /etc/cron.d/cron.deny .
.RE
.sp
.LP
Users: Access to
.B crontab
is denied:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.allow
exists and the user's name is not in it.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.allow
does not exist and user's name is in
.BR /etc/cron.d/cron.deny .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if neither file exists, only a user with the \fBsolaris.jobs.user\fR
authorization is allowed to submit a job.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
if Solaris Auditing is enabled, the user's shell is not audited and the user
is not the
.B crontab
owner. This can occur if the user logs in by way of
a program, such as some versions of
.BR SSH ,
which does not set audit
parameters.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The rules for
.B allow
and
.B deny
apply to
.B root
only if the
\fBallow\fR/\fBdeny\fR files exist.
.sp
.LP
The \fBallow\fR/\fBdeny\fR files consist of one user name per line.
.SS "\fBcrontab\fR Entry Format"
.sp
.LP
A
.B crontab
file consists of lines of six fields each. The fields are
separated by spaces or tabs. The first five are integer patterns that specify
the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
minute (0\(mi59),
hour (0\(mi23),
day of the month (1\(mi31),
month of the year (1\(mi12),
day of the week (0\(mi6 with 0=Sunday).
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Each of these patterns can be either an asterisk (meaning all legal values)
or a list of elements separated by commas. An element is either a number or
two numbers separated by a minus sign (meaning an inclusive range). Time
specified here is interpreted in the currently active timezone. At the top of
the crontab file this is the timezone which is set system-wide in
/etc/default/init. A user can add a line such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
TZ=\fItimezone\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.and all subsequent entries will be interpreted using that timezone,
until a new \fBTZ=\fItimezone\fR line is encountered. The specification of
days can be made by two fields (day of the month and day of the week). Both
are adhered to if specified as a list of elements. See
.BR EXAMPLES .
.sp
.LP
The sixth field of a line in a
.B crontab
file is a string that is
executed by the shell at the specified times. A percent character in this
field (unless escaped by \fB\e\fR\|) is translated to a \fINEWLINE\fR
character.
.sp
.LP
Only the first line (up to a \fB`\|%\|'\fR or end of line) of the command
field is executed by the shell. Other lines are made available to the command
as standard input. Any blank line or line beginning with a \fB`\|#\|'\fR is a
comment and is ignored.
.sp
.LP
The shell is invoked from your $HOME directory. As with $TZ, both $SHELL and
$HOME can be set by having a line such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
SHELL=/usr/bin/\fIsomeshell\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.or:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
HOME=\fIsomedirectory\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&.\|.\|.which will take precedence for all the remaining entries in the
\fBcrontab\fR or until there is another \fBHOME\fR or \fBSHELL\fR entry. It
is invoked with an
.B arg0
of the basename of the $SHELL that is currently
in effect. A user who wants to have his \fB\&.profile\fR or equivalent file
executed must  explicitly do so in the
.B crontab
file. \fBcron\fR
supplies a default environment for every shell, defining HOME, LOGNAME,
SHELL, TZ, and PATH. The default PATH for user
.B cron
jobs is
.BR /usr/bin ;
while root
.B cron
jobs default to
.BR /usr/sbin:/usr/bin .
The default PATH can be set in
\fB/etc/default/cron\fR (see \fBcron\fR(1M)). The TZ, HOME, and SHELL
environment variables are set to match those that are in effect in the
\fBcrontab\fR file at the time.
.sp
.LP
If you do not redirect the standard output and standard error of your
commands, any generated output or errors are mailed to you.
.SS "\fBcrontab\fR Environment Variables"
.sp
.LP
The following variables are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows the user to choose and alternative directory for cron to change
directory to prior to running the command. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
HOME=/var/tmp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHELL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the shell to use to run subsequent commands. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
SHELL=/usr/bin/ksh
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows the user to choose the timezone in which the
.B cron
entries are
run. This effects both the environment of the command that is run and the
timing of the entry. For example, to have your entries run using the timezone
for Iceland, use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
TZ=Iceland
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.LP
Each of these variables affects all of the lines that follow it in the
\fBcrontab\fR file, until it is reset by a subsequent line resetting that
variable. Hence, it is possible to have multiple timezones supported within a
single
.B crontab
file.
.sp
.LP
The lines that are not setting these environment variables are  the same as
crontab entries that conform to the UNIX standard and are described elsewhere
in this man page.
.SS "Setting \fBcron\fR Jobs Across Timezones"
.sp
.LP
The default timezone of the
.B cron
daemon sets the system-wide timezone
for
.B cron
entries. This, in turn, is by set by default system-wide using
.BR /etc/default/init .
.sp
.LP
If some form of
.B "daylight savings"
or
.B "summer/winter time"
is in
effect, then jobs scheduled during the switchover period could be executed
once, twice, or not at all.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Edits a copy of the current user's
.B crontab
file, or creates an empty
file to edit if
.B crontab
does not exist. When editing is complete, the
file is installed as the user's
.B crontab
file.
.sp
The environment variable
.B EDITOR
determines which editor is invoked
with the
.B -e
option. All
.B crontab
jobs should be submitted using
.BR crontab .
Do not add jobs by just editing the
.B crontab
file,
because
.B cron
is not aware of changes made this way.
.sp
If all lines in the
.B crontab
file are deleted, the old \fBcrontab\fR
file is restored. The correct way to delete all lines is to remove the
\fBcrontab\fR file using the \fB-r\fR option.
.sp
If
.I username
is specified, the specified user's
.B crontab
file is
edited, rather than the current user's
.B crontab
file. This can only be
done by root or by a user with the
.B solaris.jobs.admin
authorization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Lists the
.B crontab
file for the invoking user. Only root or a user with
the
.B solaris.jobs.admin
authorization can specify a username following
the
.B -l
option to list the
.B crontab
file of the specified user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Removes a user's
.B crontab
from the
.B crontab
directory. Only root
or a user with the
.B solaris.jobs.admin
authorization can specify a
username following the
.B -r
option to remove the
.B crontab
file of
the specified user.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Cleaning up Core Files
.sp
.LP
This example cleans up
.B core
files every weekday morning at 3:15 am:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB15 3 * * 1-5 find $HOME\fR \fB-name\fBcore 2>/dev/null | xargs rm\fR \fB-f\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Mailing a Birthday Greeting
.sp
.LP
This example mails a birthday greeting:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB0 12 14 2 * mailx john%Happy Birthday!%Time for lunch.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Specifying Days of the Month and Week
.sp
.LP
This example runs a command on the first and fifteenth of each month, as
well as on every Monday:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB0 0 1,15 * 1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To specify days by only one field, the other field should be set to *. For
example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB0 0 * * 1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would run a command only on Mondays.

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Using Environment Variables
.sp
.LP
The following entries take advantage of
.B crontab
support for certain
environment variables.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
TZ=GMT
HOME=/local/home/user
SHELL=/usr/bin/ksh
0 0 * * * echo $(date) >        midnight.GMT
TZ=PST
0 0 * * * echo $(date) >        midnight.PST
TZ=EST
HOME=/local/home/myuser
SHELL=/bin/csh
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The preceding entries allow two jobs to run. The first one would run at
midnight in the GMT timezone and the second would run at midnight in the PST
timezone. Both would be run in the directory
.B /local/home/user
using the
Korn shell. The file concludes with
.BR TZ ,
.BR HOME ,
and
.BR SHELL
entries that return those variable to their default values.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR crontab :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDITOR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Determine the editor to be invoked when the
.B -e
option is specified.
This is overridden by the
.B VISUAL
environmental variable. The default
editor is
.BR vi (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PATH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B PATH
in \fBcrontab\fR's environment specifies the search path used
to find the editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VISUAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Determine the visual editor to be invoked when the
.B -e
option is
specified. If
.B VISUAL
is not specified, then the environment variable
\fBEDITOR\fR is used. If that is not set, the default is
.BR vi (1).
.RE

.SS "\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDITOR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Determine the editor to be invoked when the
.B -e
option is specified.
The default editor is
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/vi .
.RE

.SS "\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDITOR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Determine the editor to be invoked when the
.B -e
option is specified.
The default editor is
.BR /usr/xpg6/bin/vi .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/cron.d
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
main cron directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.allow
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
list of allowed users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/default/cron\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
contains cron default settings
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.deny
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
list of denied users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/cron/log
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
accounting information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/cron/crontabs
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
spool area for
.BR crontab
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "\fB/usr/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SS "\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SS "\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/crontab\fR"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu6
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR atq (1),
.BR atrm (1),
.BR auths (1),
.BR ed (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR cron (1M),
.BR su (1M),
.BR auth_attr (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If you inadvertently enter the
.B crontab
command with no arguments, do
not attempt to get out with Control-d. This removes all entries in your
\fBcrontab\fR file. Instead, exit with Control-c.
.sp
.LP
When updating
.BR cron ,
check first for existing
.B crontab
entries
that can be scheduled close to the time of the update. Such entries can be
lost if the update process completes after the scheduled event. This can
happen because, when
.B cron
is notified by
.B crontab
to update the
internal view of a user's
.B crontab
file, it first removes the user's
existing internal
.B crontab
and any internal scheduled events. Then it
reads the new
.B crontab
file and rebuilds the internal
.B crontab
and
.RB "events. This last step takes time, especially with a large" " crontab"
file, and can complete \fBafter\fR an existing
.B crontab
entry is
scheduled to run if it is scheduled too close to the update. To be safe,
start a new job at least 60 seconds after the current date and time.
.sp
.LP
If an authorized user other than root modifies another user's \fBcrontab\fR
file, the resulting behavior can be unpredictable. Instead, the authorized
user should first use
.BR su "(1M) to become superuser to the other user's"
login before making any changes to the
.B crontab
file.
.sp
.LP
Care should be taken when adding
.BR TZ ,
\fBSHELL\fR and \fBHOME\fR
variables to the
.B crontab
file when the
.B crontab
file could be
shared with applications that do not expect those variables to be changed
from the default. Resetting the values to their defaults at the bottom of the
file will minimize the risk of problems.
