'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csplit 1 "4 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
csplit \- split  files based on context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcsplit\fR [\fB-ks\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIprefix\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] \fIfile\fR \fIarg1\fR.\|.\|. \fIargn\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B csplit
utility reads the file named by the
.I file
operand,
writes all or part of that file into other files as directed by the
.I arg
operands, and writes the sizes of the files.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI prefix\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Names the created files \fIprefix\fB00\fR, \fIprefix\fB01\fR, .\|.\|.,
\fIprefix\fIn\fR. The default is \fBxx00\fR .\|.\|. \fBxx\fIn\fR. If the
.I prefix
argument would create a file name exceeding
.B 14
bytes, an
error results. In that case,
.B csplit
exits with a diagnostic message
and no files are created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Leaves previously created files intact. By default,
.B csplit
removes
created files if an error occurs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " number"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Uses
.I number
decimal digits to form filenames for the file pieces. The
default is
.BR 2 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Suppresses the output of file size messages.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The path name of a text file to be split. If
.I file
is
.BR - ,
the
standard input will be used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The operands
.I arg1
\&.\|.\|. \fIargn\fR can be a combination of the
following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/\fIrexp\fR/[\fIoffset\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Create a file using the content of the lines from the current line up to,
but not including, the line that results from the evaluation of the regular
expression with
.IR offset ,
if any, applied. The regular expression
.I rexp
must follow the rules for basic regular expressions. Regular
expressions can include the use of '\fB\e/\fR\&' and '\fB\e%\fR\&'. These
forms must be properly quoted with single quotes, since "\fB\e\fR" is
special to the shell. The optional
.I offset
must be a positive or
negative integer value representing a number of lines. The integer value
must be preceded by
.B +
or \fB\(mi\fR\&. If the selection of lines from
an offset expression of this type would create a file with zero lines, or
one with greater than the number of lines left in the input file, the
results are unspecified. After the section is created, the current line will
be set to the line that results from the evaluation of the regular
expression with any offset applied. The pattern match of
.I rexp
always
is applied from the current line to the end of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB%\fIrexp\fR%[\fIoffset\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
This operand is the same as /\fIrexp\fR/[\fIoffset\fR], except that no file
will be created for the selected section of the input file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I line_no
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Create a file from the current line up to (but not including) the line
number
.IR line_no .
Lines in the file will be numbered starting at one.
The current line becomes
.IR line_no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{\fInum\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Repeat operand. This operand can follow any of the operands described
previously. If it follows a
.I rexp
type operand, that operand will be
applied
.I num
more times. If it follows a
.I line_no
operand, the
file will be split every
.I line_no
lines,
.I num
times, from that
point.
.RE

.sp
.LP
An error will be reported if an operand does not reference a line between
the current position and the end of the file.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR csplit
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Splitting and combining files
.sp
.LP
This example creates four files, \fBcobol00\fR.\|.\|.\fBcobol03\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcsplit -f cobol filename \e
   '/procedure division/' /par5./ /par16./\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
After editing the
.B split
files, they can be recombined as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat cobol0[0\(mi3] > \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example overwrites the original file.

.LP
.B Example 2
Splitting a file into equal parts
.sp
.LP
This example splits the file at every 100 lines, up to 10,000 lines. The
.B -k
option causes the created files to be retained if there are less
than 10,000 lines; however, an error message would still be printed.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcsplit -k filename 100 {99}\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Creating a file for separate C routines
.sp
.LP
If
.B prog.c
follows the normal C coding convention (the last line of a
routine consists only of a
.B }
in the first character position), this
example creates a file for each separate C routine (up to 21) in
.BR prog.c .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcsplit -k prog.c '%main(%' '/^}/+1' {20}\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR csplit :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sed (1),
.BR split (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The diagnostic messages are self-explanatory, except for the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
\(mi out of range\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The given argument did not reference a line between the current position
and the end of the file.
.RE

