'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ctstat 1 "16 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ctstat \- display active system contracts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ctstat\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid.\|.\|.\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype.\|.\|.\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ctstat
utility allows a user to observe the contracts active on a
system.
.sp
.LP
Unless you specify the
.B -i
or
.B -t
option,
.B ctstat
displays
statistics on all contracts in the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all contracts regardless of state. By default, only those contracts
which are in the owned, inherited, or orphan states are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request status on the specified contracts, identified by their numeric
contract identifier
.RI ( contract_id ).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments . Items in the list can be separated
by commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T u
|
.B d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a time stamp.
.sp
Specify
.B u
for a printed representation of the internal representation
of time. See
.BR time (2).
Specify
.B d
for standard date format. See
.BR date (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request status on contracts of the specified type
.RI ( type ).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments. Items in the list can be separated
by commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.sp
The following types are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B process
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Process contracts
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interval
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report once each
.I interval
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I count
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print only
.I count
reports.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The following list defines the column headings and the meanings of a
.B ctstat
report:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CTID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract
.B ID
of the contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ZONEID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The zone ID of the contract's creator.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TYPE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STATE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the contract:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B owned
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contract is owned by a process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B inherited
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract owner has exited abnormally and the contract has been
inherited by the owner's process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B orphan
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract owner has abandoned the contract, the contract owner exited
abnormally and the contract was not inherited by the owner's process
contract, or the process contract which had inherited the contract was
abandoned by its owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dead
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract is no longer active. It is removed from the system
automatically when all references to it (open file descriptors, contract
templates, and events) have been released.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOLDER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the contract is in the
.B owned
state, the pid of the process that
owns the contract. If the contract is in the
.B inherited
state, the id
of the regent process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EVENTS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The number of unacknowledged critical events pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B QTIME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The time until quantum ends, or
.B -
if no negotiation is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NTIME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The time until negotiation ends, or
.B -
if no negotiation is in
progress.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Reporting on all Contracts in the System
.sp
.LP
The following example reports on all contracts in the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -a

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
2       process dead    -       1       -       -
3       process inherit 1       3       -       -
4       process orphan  -       0       -       -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Obtaining a Verbose Report of All Contracts in the System
.sp
.LP
The following example obtains a verbose report of all contracts in the
system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -av

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
        informative event set: none
        critical event set:    hwerr core
        fatal event set:       hwerr
        parameter set:         none
        member processes:      100600 100601
        inherited ctids:       none
        service fmri:          svc:/system/init:default
        svc_fmri ctid:         1
        creator:               sched
        aux:

2       process dead    -       1       -       -
        informative event set: none
        critical event set:    none
        fatal event set:       hwerr core
        parameter set:         pgrponly
        member processes:      none
        inherited ctids:       none
        service fmri:          svc:/system/power:default
        svc_fmri ctid:         19
        creator:               svc.startd
        aux:                   start
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /system/contract/*
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The human readable output is Uncommitted. The invocation is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ctrun (1),
.BR ctwatch (1),
.BR contract (4),
.BR process (4),
.BR attributes (5)
