'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ctwatch 1 "14 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ctwatch \- watch events in a contract or group of contracts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ctwatch\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fIcontract-type\fR.\|.\|. | \fIcontract-id\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ctwatch
utility allows a user to observe the events occurring
within a set of contracts or contract types. By default,
.B ctwatch
watches all contracts.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Report events starting at the front of the event queue. Normally,
.B ctwatch
reports only events which occur after it has been invoked.
With the
.B -f
option, any events that still exist in the contracts'
event queues when
.B ctwatch
is invoked (for example, unacknowledged
critical events) are also reported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Reliably watches all messages. Normally, the system may drop informative
events and acknowledged critical events at any time, so
.B ctwatch
isn't
guaranteed to see them all. This option may only be used if the
.B ctwatch
is invoked with the
.B {PRIV_CONTRACT_EVENT}
privilege
asserted in its effective set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Request verbose event descriptions.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I contract-type
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Valid contract types are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B process
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Process contracts.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I contract-id
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
A valid contract id.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The following list defines the column headings and the meanings of a
.B ctwatch
report:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CTID
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The contract
.B ID
generating the event.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EVID
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The event
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CRIT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Whether the event is informative, critical, or initiates an exit
negotiation. Values are
.BR info ,
.BR crit ,
or
.BR neg ,
respectively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ACK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The event has been acknowledged. Values are \fByes\fR or "\fBno\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CTTYPE
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The contract type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SUMMARY
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A type-specific summary of the event.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Watching a process contract
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBctwatch -r 1\fR

CTID    EVID    CRIT ACK CTTYPE  SUMMARY
1       2       crit no  process pid 100569 was created
1       3       info no  process pid 100569 encountered hardware error
1       4       info no  process pid 100568 exited
1       5       info no  process pid 100569 exited
1       6       crit no  process contract empty
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /system/contract/*
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Human Readable Output is Unstable. Invocation is Evolving.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ctrun (1),
.BR ctstat (1),
.BR contract (4),
.BR process (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Ordering of events is only guaranteed within a single contract, or within a
single type when a type is specified.
.sp
.LP
.B ctwatch
can only observe those events which are generated by
contracts owned or authored by processes with the same effective user ID as
.BR ctwatch ,
unless the
.B {PRIV_CONTRACT_OBSERVER}
privilege is
asserted in its effective set.
