'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cut 1 "29 Apr 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cut \- cut out selected fields of each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-b\fR \fIlist\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-c\fR \fIlist\fR [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-f\fR \fIlist\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdelim\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B cut
utility to cut out columns from a table or fields from
each line of a file; in data base parlance, it implements the projection of
a relation. The fields as specified by
.I list
can be fixed length, that
is, character positions as on a punched card (\fB-c\fR option) or the length
can vary from line to line and be marked with a field delimiter character
.RB "like TAB (" -f " option). " cut " can be used as a filter."
.sp
.LP
Either the
.BR -b ,
.BR -c ,
or
.B -f
option must be specified.
.sp
.LP
Use
.BR grep (1)
to make horizontal ``cuts'' (by context) through a file,
or
.BR paste (1)
to put files together column-wise (that is, horizontally).
To reorder columns in a table, use
.B cut
and
.BR paste .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I list
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A comma-separated or blank-character-separated list of integer field
numbers (in increasing order), with optional
.B \(mi
to indicate ranges
(for instance,
.BR 1,4,7 ;
\fB1\(mi3,8\fR; \fB\(mi5,10\fR (short for
\fB1\(mi5,10\fR); or \fB3\(mi\fR (short for third through last field)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I list
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I list
following
.B -b
specifies byte positions (for instance,
.B -b1-72
would pass the first 72 bytes of each line). When
.B -b
and
.B -n
are used together,
.I list
is adjusted so that no
multi-byte character is split.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I list
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I list
following
.B -c
specifies character positions (for
instance,
.B -c1-72
would pass the first 72 characters of each
line).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I delim
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The character following
.B -d
is the field delimiter (\fB-f\fR option
only). Default is
.IR tab .
Space or other characters with special meaning
to the shell must be quoted.
.I delim
can be a multi-byte character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I list
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I list
following
.B -f
is a list of fields assumed to be
separated in the file by a delimiter character (see
.B -d
); for
instance,
.B -f1,7
copies the first and seventh field only. Lines
with no field delimiters will be passed through intact (useful for table
subheadings), unless
.B -s
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not split characters. When
.B -b
.I list
and
.B -n
are used
together,
.I list
is adjusted so that no multi-byte character is split.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Suppresses lines with no delimiter characters in case of
.B -f
option.
Unless specified, lines with no delimiters will be passed through
untouched.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If no
.I file
operands are specified, or
if a
.I file
operand is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input will be used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR cut
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Mapping user IDs
.sp
.LP
A mapping of user
.B IDs
to names follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcut -d: -f1,5 /etc/passwd\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Setting current login name
.sp
.LP
To set
.B name
to current login name:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBname=\(gawho am i | cut -f1 -d' '\(ga\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cut :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
All input files were output successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR grep (1),
.BR paste (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "cut: -n may only be used with -b
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "cut: -d may only be used with -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "cut: -s may only be used with -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "cut: cannot open " <file>
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either
.I file
cannot be read or does not exist.  If multiple files are
present, processing continues.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: no delimiter specified
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Missing
.I delim
on
.B -d
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: invalid delimiter
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcut: no \fIlist\fB specified\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Missing
.I list
on
.BR -b ,
.BR -c ,
or
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: invalid range specifier
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: too many ranges specified
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: range must be increasing
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: invalid character in range
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: internal error processing input
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cut: invalid multibyte character
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "cut: unable to allocate enough memory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

