'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH date 1 "11 May 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
date \- write the date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/date\fR [\fB-u\fR] [+\fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/date\fR [\fB-a\fR [-]\fIsss.fff\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/date\fR [\fB-u\fR] [ [\fImmdd\fR] \fIHHMM\fR | \fImmddHHMM\fR [\fIcc\fR] \fIyy\fR] [\fI\&.SS\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/date\fR [\fB-u\fR] [+\fIformat\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/date\fR [\fB-a\fR [-]\fIsss.fff\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/date\fR [\fB-u\fR]
     [ [\fImmdd\fR] \fIHHMM\fR | \fImmddHHMM\fR [\fIcc\fR] \fIyy\fR] [\fI\&.SS\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B date
utility writes the date and time to standard output or
attempts to set the system date and time. By default, the current date and
time is written.
.sp
.LP
Specifications of native language translations of month and weekday names
are supported. The month and weekday names used for a language are based on
the locale specified by the environment variable
.BR LC_TIME .
See
.BR environ (5).
.sp
.LP
The following is the default form for the "C" locale:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI%a %b %e %T %Z %Y\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Fri Dec 23 10:10:42 EST 1988
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR [\|\fB-\fR\|]\|\fIsss.fff\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Slowly adjust the time by \fIsss\fR.\fIfff\fR seconds (\fIfff\fR represents
fractions of a second). This adjustment can be positive or negative. The
system's clock is sped up or slowed down until it has drifted by the number
of seconds specified. Only the super-user may adjust the time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Display (or set) the date in Greenwich Mean Time (GMT\(emuniversal time),
bypassing the normal conversion to (or from) local time.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI + format
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If the argument begins with
.BR + ,
the output of
.B date
is the result
of passing
.I format
and the current time to
.BR strftime() .
.B date
uses the conversion specifications listed on the
.BR strftime (3C)
manual
page, with the conversion specification for
.B %C
determined by whether
.B /usr/bin/date
or
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/date
is used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/bin/date
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Locale's date and time representation. This is the default output for
.BR date .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/date
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Century (a year divided by 100 and truncated to an integer) as a decimal
number [00-99].
.RE

The string is always terminated with a NEWLINE. An argument containing
blanks must be quoted; see the EXAMPLES section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mm
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Month number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dd
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Day number in the month
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I HH
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Hour number (24 hour system)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I MM
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Minute number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I SS
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Second number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cc
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Century (a year divided by 100 and truncated to an integer) as a decimal
number [00-99]. For example,
.IR cc " is "
.B 19
for the year 1988 and
.B 20
for the year 2007.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I yy
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Last two digits of the year number. If century
.RI ( cc )
is not specified,
then values in the range
.B 69-99
shall refer to years 1969 to 1999
inclusive, and values in the range
.B 00-68
shall refer to years 2000 to
2068, inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The month, day, year number, and century may be omitted; the current values
are applied as defaults. For example, the following entry:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBdate 10080045\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
sets the date to Oct 8, 12:45 a.m. The current year is the default because
no year is supplied. The system operates in GMT.
.B date
takes care of
the conversion to and from local standard and daylight time. Only the
super-user may change the date. After successfully setting the date and
time,
.B date
displays the new date according to the default format. The
.B date
command uses
.B TZ
to determine the correct time zone
information; see
.BR environ (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Generating Output
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBdate '+DATE: %m/%d/%y%nTIME:%H:%M:%S'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
generates as output

.sp
.in +2
.nf
DATE: 08/01/76

TIME: 14:45:05
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Setting the Current Time
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the current time to
.BR 12:34:56 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBdate 1234.56\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Setting Another Time and Date in Greenwich Mean Time
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the date to January 1st, 12:30 am, 2000:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBdate -u 010100302000\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This is displayed as:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Thu Jan 01 00:30:00 GMT 2000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR date :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Determine the timezone in which the time and date are written, unless the
.B -u
option is specified. If the
.B TZ
variable is not set and the
.B -u
is not specified, the system default timezone is used.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/date"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIenabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/date"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
CSIenabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR strftime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no permission
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
You are not the super-user and you tried to change the date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bad conversion
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The date set is syntactically incorrect.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If you attempt to set the current date to one of the dates that the
standard and alternate time zones change (for example, the date that
daylight time is starting or ending), and you attempt to set the time to a
time in the interval between the end of standard time and the beginning of
the alternate time (or the end of the alternate time and the beginning of
standard time), the results are unpredictable.
.sp
.LP
Using the
.B date
command from within windowing environments to change
the date can lead to unpredictable results and is unsafe. It can also be
unsafe in the multi-user mode, that is, outside of a windowing system, if
the date is changed rapidly back and forth. The recommended method of
changing the date is '\fBdate -a\fR'.
.sp
.LP
Setting the system time or allowing the system time to progress beyond
.B 03:14:07 UTC Jan 19, 2038
is not supported on Solaris.
