'\" te
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH deallocate 1 "30 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
deallocate \- device deallocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdeallocate\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIdev-class\fR | \fB-g\fR \fIdev-type\fR | \fIdevice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdeallocate\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] \fB-I\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B deallocate
command frees an allocated device. It resets the
ownership and permissions on all device special files associated with the
device, disabling access to that device.
.B deallocate
runs the device
cleaning program for that device as specified in
.BR device_allocate (4).

.sp
.LP
The default
.B deallocate
operation deallocates devices allocated to the
user.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I dev-class
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Deallocates all devices of the specified device class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I device
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Forces deallocation of the device associated with the file specified by
.IR device .
Only a user with the
.B solaris.device.revoke
authorization
is permitted to use this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Forces deallocation of all allocatable devices. Only a user with the
.B solaris.device.revoke
authorization is permitted to use this option.
This option should only be used at system initialization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Silent. Suppresses any diagnostic output.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported when the system is configured with
Trusted Extensions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.I dev-type
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Deallocates a device of device type matching
.IR dev-type .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Runs the device cleaning program in a windowing environment. If a windowing
version of the program exists, it is used. Otherwise, the standard version
is run in a terminal window.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zonename
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Deallocates device from the zone specified by
.IR zonename .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Deallocates the specified
.IR device .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No entry for the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I other value
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_allocate
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_maps
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/dev/*
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/lib/*
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The invocation is Uncommitted. The options are Uncommitted. The output is
Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR allocate (1),
.BR list_devices (1),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR dminfo (1M),
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
.BR mkdevmaps (1M),
.BR device_allocate (4),
.BR device_maps (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Controlling Access to Devices
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described in this man page is available only if Solaris
Auditing has been enabled. See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more information.
.sp
.LP
On systems configured with Trusted Extensions, the functionality is enabled
by default.
.sp
.LP
.BR /etc/security/dev ,
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
and
.BR mkdevmaps (1M)
might not be supported in a future release of the Solaris Operating
Environment.
