'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH deroff 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
deroff \- remove nroff/troff, tbl, and eqn constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBderoff\fR [\fB-m\fR [m | s | l]] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B deroff
reads each of the
.I filenames
in sequence and removes all
.BR troff (1)
requests, macro calls, backslash constructs,
.BR eqn (1)
constructs (between \fB\&.EQ\fR and \fB\&.EN\fR lines, and
between delimiters), and
.BR tbl (1)
descriptions, perhaps replacing them
with white space (blanks and blank lines), and writes the remainder of the
file on the standard output.
.B deroff
follows chains of included files
(\fB\&.so\fR and \fB\&.nx\fR
.B troff
commands); if a file has already
been included, a \fB\&.so\fR naming that file is ignored and a \fB\&.nx\fR
naming that file terminates execution. If no input file is given,
.B deroff
reads the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The
.B -m
option may be followed by an
.BR m ,
.BR s ,
or
.BR l .
The
.B -mm
option causes the macros to be interpreted so that only running
text is output (that is, no text from macro lines.)  The
.B -ml
option
forces the
.B -mm
option and also causes deletion of lists associated
with the
.B mm
macros.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the
.B -w
option is given, the output is a word list, one ``word''
per line, with all other characters deleted. Otherwise, the output follows
the original, with the deletions mentioned above. In text, a ``word'' is any
string that
.I contains
at least two letters and is composed of letters,
digits, ampersands
.RB ( & ),
and apostrophes (\fB\&'\fR); in a macro call,
however, a ``word'' is a string that
.I begins
with at least two letters
and contains a total of at least three letters. Delimiters are any
characters other than letters, digits, apostrophes, and ampersands. Trailing
apostrophes and ampersands are removed from ``words.''
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The
.B -i
option causes 
.B deroff
to ignore  \fB\&.so\fR and
\fB\&.nx\fR commands.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR eqn (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B deroff
is not a complete
.B troff
interpreter, so it can be
confused by subtle constructs. Most such errors result in too much rather
than too little output.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -ml
option does not handle nested lists correctly.
