'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH diff3 1 "7 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
diff3 \- 3-way differential file comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdiff3\fR [\fB-exEX3\fR] \fIfilename1\fR \fIfilename2\fR \fIfilename3\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdiff3\fR compares three versions of a file. It publishes disagreeing
ranges of text flagged with the following codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ====
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
all three files differ
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ====1
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
\fIfilename1\fRis different
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ====2
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
\fIfilename2\fRis different
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ====3
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
\fIfilename3\fRis different
.RE

.sp
.LP
The type of change suffered in converting a given range of a given file to
some other is indicated in one of the following ways:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIf\fB : \fIn1\fB a\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Text is to be appended after line number
.I n1
in file
.IR f ,
where
\fIf\fR = 1, 2, or 3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIf\fB : \fIn1\fB , \fIn2\fB c\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Text is to be changed in the range line
.I n1
to line
.IR n2 .
If
\fIn1\fR =
.IR n 2,
the range can be abbreviated to
.IR n1 .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The original contents of the range follows immediately after a
.BR c
indication. When the contents of two files are identical, the contents of
the lower-numbered file is suppressed.
.sp
.LP
The following command applies the resulting script to
.IR filename1 .
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB(cat script; echo '1,$p') | ed \(mi \fIfilename1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Produce a script for the
.BR ed (1)
editor that incorporates into
\fIfilename1\fR all changes between \fIfilename2\fR and \fIfilename3\fR
(that is, the changes that normally would be flagged
.B ====
and
.BR ====3 ).
.sp
Text lines that consist of a single dot (\fB\&.\fR defeat the \fB-e\fR
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Produce a script that incorporates all changes between \fIfilename2\fR and
\fIfilename3\fR, but treat overlapping changes (that is, changes that would
be flagged with
.B ====
in the normal listing) differently. The
overlapping lines from both files are inserted by the edit script, bracketed
by
.B <<<<<<
and
.B >>>>>>
lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Produce a script to incorporate only changes flagged
.BR ==== .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -X
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Produce a script that incorporates only changes flagged
.BR ==== ,
but
treat these changes in the manner of the
.B -E
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Produce a script to incorporate only changes flagged
.BR ====3 .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBdiff3\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/d3*
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/diff3prog\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt

.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred. A difference was found or there was a fatal error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
A fatal error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Return values do not work the same as
.BR diff (1)
or other vendor's
versions of
.BR diff3 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesc
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Files longer than 64 Kbytes do not work.
