'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH diffmk 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
diffmk \- mark differences between versions of a troff input file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdiffmk\fR \fIoldfile\fR \fInewfile\fR \fImarkedfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B diffmk
compares two versions of a file and creates a third version
that includes "change mark" (\fB\&.mc\fR) commands for \fBnroff\fR(1) and
.BR troff (1).
.I oldfile
and
.I newfile
are the old and new versions
of the file.
.B diffmk
generates
.IR markedfile ,
which, contains the
text from \fInewfile\fR with  \fBtroff\fR(1) "change mark" requests
(\fB\&.mc\fR) inserted where 
.I newfile
differs from  \fIoldfile\fR.
When
.I markedfile
is formatted, changed or inserted text is shown by
.B |
at the right margin of each line. The position of deleted text is
shown by a single
.BR * .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B diffmk
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An example of the
.B diffmk
command.
.sp
.LP
.B diffmk
can also be used in conjunction with the proper 
.B troff
requests to produce program listings with marked changes. In the following
command line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% diffmk old.c new.c marked.c ; nroff reqs marked.c | pr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
the file
.B reqs
contains the following
.B troff
requests:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.pl \|1
\&.ll \|77
\&.nf
\&.eo
\&.nh
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
which eliminate page breaks, adjust the line length, set no-fill mode,
ignore escape characters, and turn off hyphenation, respectively.

.sp
.LP
If the characters
.B |
and
.B *
are inappropriate, you might run
.I markedfile
through
.BR sed (1)
to globally change them.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR sed (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Aesthetic considerations may dictate manual adjustment of some output. File
differences involving only formatting requests may produce undesirable
output, that is, replacing \fB\&.sp\fR by \fB\&.sp 2\fR will produce a
"change mark" on the preceding or following line of output.
