'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dis 1 "24 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dis \- object code disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdis\fR [\fB-onqCLV\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIfunction\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIsec\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dis
command produces an assembly language listing of
.IR file ,
which can be an object file or an archive of object files. The listing
includes assembly statements and an octal or hexadecimal representation of
the binary that produced those statements.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Options are interpreted by the disassembler and can be specified in any
order.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Displays demangled C++ symbol names in the disassembly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I sec
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disassembles the named section as data, printing the offset of the data
from the beginning of the section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I sec
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disassembles the named section as data, printing the actual address of the
data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I function
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disassembles only the named function in each object file specified on the
command line. The
.B -F
option can be specified multiple times on the
command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I string
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disassembles the archive file specified by
.IR string .
For example, one
would issue the command
.B "dis -l"
.B "x -l"
.B z
to
disassemble
.B libx.a
and
.BR libz.a ,
which are assumed to be in
.BR LIBDIR .
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of
Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Invokes a lookup of C-language source labels in the symbol table for
subsequent writing to standard output.
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of
Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Displays all addresses numerically. Addresses are displayed using symbolic
names by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints numbers in octal. The default is hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Quiet mode.  Does not print any headers or function entry labels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I sec
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disassembles the named section as text.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints, on standard error, the version number of the disassembler being
executed.
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of
Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the
.BR -d ,
.BR -D ,
or
.B -t
options are specified, only those
named sections from each user-supplied file is disassembled. Otherwise, all
sections containing text is disassembled.
.sp
.LP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets at the beginning of a line, such
as
.BR [5] ,
indicates that the break-pointable line number starts with the
following instruction. These line numbers is printed only if the file was
compiled with additional debugging information.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of an object file or an archive (see
.BR ar (1))
of object
files.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR dis :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LIBDIR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If this environment variable contains a value, use this as the path to
search for the library. If the variable contains a null value, or is not
set, it defaults to searching for the library under
.BR /usr/lib .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
default
.BR LIBDIR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The human readable output is Uncommitted. The command line options are
Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR as (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR a.out (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The self-explanatory diagnostics indicate errors in the command line or
problems encountered with the specified files.
