'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH download 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
download \- host resident PostScript font downloader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdownload\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprinter\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIdirectory\fR]
     [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/download\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B download
prepends host resident fonts to
.I files
and writes the
results on the standard output. If no
.I files
are specified, or if
\fB\(mi\fR is one of the input
.IR files ,
the standard input is read.
.B download
assumes the input
.I files
make up a single PostScript job
and that requested fonts can be included at the start of each input
.BR file .
.sp
.LP
Requested fonts are named in a comment (marked with
.BR %%DocumentFonts: )
in
the input
.IR files .
Available fonts are the ones listed in the map table
selected using the
.B -m
option.
.sp
.LP
The map table consists of fontname\(mifile pairs. The fontname is the full
name of the PostScript font, exactly as it would appear in a
.B %%DocumentFonts:
comment. The file is the pathname of the host resident
font. A file that begins with a
.B /
is used as is. Otherwise the pathname
is relative to the host font directory. Comments are introduced by % (as in
PostScript) and extend to the end of the line.
.sp
.LP
The only candidates for downloading are  fonts listed in the map table that
point
.B download
to readable files. A font is downloaded once, at most.
Requests for unlisted fonts or inaccessible files are ignored. All requests are
ignored if the map table can not be read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Force a complete scan of each input
.BR file .
In the absence of an explicit
comment pointing
.B download
to the end of the file, the default scan stops
immediately after the PostScript header comments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " printer"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Check the list of printer-resident fonts in
\fB/etc/lp/printers/\fIprinter\fB/residentfonts\fR before downloading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " name"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Use
.I name
as the font map table. A
.I name
that begins with
.B /
is
the full pathname of the map table and is used as is. Otherwise
.I name
is
appended to the pathname of the host font directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -H " directory"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Use
.I dir
as the host font directory. The default is
.BR /usr/lib/lp/postscript .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of the
.B download
command.
.sp
.LP
The following  map table could be used to control the downloading of the
Bookman font family:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
%
% The first string is the full PostScript font name. The second string
% is the file name - relative to the host font directory unless it begins
% with a /.
%
    Bookman-Light               bookman/light
    Bookman-LightItalic      bookman/lightitalic
    Bookman-Demi               bookman/demi
    Bookman-DemiItalic      bookman/demiitalic
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Using the file
.B myprinter/map
(in the default host font directory)  as
the map table, you could download fonts  by issuing the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% download \fB-m\fB \fImyprinter/map file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B download
program should be part of a more general program.
.sp
.LP
.B download
does not look for
.B %%PageFonts:
comments and there is no
way to force multiple downloads of a particular font.
.sp
.LP
Using full pathnames in either map tables or the names of map tables is not
recommended.
