'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dpost 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dpost \- troff postprocessor for PostScript printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdpost\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR]
     [\fB-w\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIdir\fR]
     [\fB-L\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-O\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIname\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/dpost\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdpost\fR translates \fIfiles\fR created by
.BR troff (1)
into PostScript
and writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are
specified, or if \(mi is one of the input
.IR files ,
the standard input is
read.
.sp
.LP
The \fIfiles\fR should be prepared by
.BR troff .
The default font files in
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR produce the best and most efficient output. They
assume a resolution of 720 dpi, and can be used to format files by adding the
\fB-Tpost\fR option to the \fBtroff\fR call. Older versions of the \fBeqn\fR
and
.B pic
preprocessors need to know the resolution that \fBtroff\fR will
be using to format the
.IR files .
If those are the versions installed on
your system, use the
.B -r720
option with
.B eqn
and
.B -T720
with
.BR pic .
.sp
.LP
\fBdpost\fR makes no assumptions about resolutions. The first \fBx res\fR
command sets the resolution used to translate the input
.IR files ,
the
\fBDESC.out\fR file, usually
.BR /usr/lib/font/devpost/DESC.out ,
defines
the resolution used in the binary font files, and the PostScript prologue is
responsible for setting up an appropriate user coordinate system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
copies of each page. By default only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -e " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Sets the text encoding level to
.IR num .
The recognized choices are 0, 1,
and 2. The size of the output file and print time should decrease as
\fInum\fR increases. Level 2 encoding will typically be about 20 percent
faster than level 0, which is the default and produces output essentially
identical to previous versions of
.BR dpost .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.IR num .
Pages are scaled
uniformly about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of
each page. The default magnification is  \fB1.0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper, where
.I num
can be
any positive integer. By default,
.I num
is set to 
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " list"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print those pages for which numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
\fIN1\fB\(mi\fIN2.\fR A missing \fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered
page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest. The page range is an expression
of logical pages rather than physical sheets of paper. For example, if you
are printing two logical pages to a sheet, and you specified a range of
.BR 4 ,
then two sheets of paper would print, containing four page layouts.
If you specified a page range of
.BR " 3-4" ,
when requesting two logical
pages to a sheet; then
.I only
page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and
they would appear on one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " mode"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape
.IR mode .
Only the first
character of
.I mode
is significant. The default
.I mode
is portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -w " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the line width used to implement \fBtroff\fR graphics commands to
\fInum\fR points, where a point is approximately 1/72 of an inch. By default,
\fInum\fR is set to  \fB0.3\fR points.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -x " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of the
page, with positive x to the right and positive y down the page. Positive
\fInum\fR moves everything right. The default offset is  \fB0\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -y " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves text up the page. The default offset is  \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -F " dir"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use
.I dir
as the font directory. The default
.I dir
is
\fB/usr/lib/font\fR, and \fBdpost\fR reads binary font files from directory
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -H " dir"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use
.I dir
as the host resident font directory. Files in this directory
should be complete PostScript font descriptions, and must be assigned a name
that corresponds to the appropriate two-character \fBtroff\fR font name. Each
font file is copied to the output file only when needed and at most once
during each job. There is no default directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-L\fI file\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use \fBfile\fR as the PostScript prologue which, by default, is
.BR /usr/lib/lp/postscript/dpost.ps .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -O
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.RB "Disables PostScript picture inclusion. A recommended option when" " dpost"
is run by a spooler in a networked environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -T " name"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use font files for device
.I name
as the best description of available
PostScript fonts. By default,
.I name
is set to
.B post
and
.BR dpost
reads binary files from \fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of the \fBdpost\fR command.
.sp
.LP
If the old versions of
.B eqn
and
.B pic
are installed on your system,
you can obtain the best possible looking output by issuing a command line
such as the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpic \fB-T720\fB \fBfile\fB | tbl | eqn \fB-r720\fB | troff \fB-mm\fB \fB-Tpost\fB | dpost\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Otherwise,

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpic \fBfile\fB | tbl | eqn | troff \fB-mm\fB \fB-Tpost\fB | dpost\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
should give the best results.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost/*.out\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost/charlib/*\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/color.ps
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/draw.ps
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/macros/pictures
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/macros/color
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR postreverse (1),
.BR posttek (1),
\fBtroff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Output files often do not conform to Adobe's file structuring conventions.
Piping the output of
.B dpost
through
.BR postreverse (1)
should produce
a minimally conforming PostScript file.
.sp
.LP
Although
.B dpost
can handle files formatted for any device, emulation is
expensive and can easily double the print time and the size of the output
file. No attempt has been made to implement the character sets or fonts
available on all devices supported by
.BR troff .
Missing characters will be
replaced by white space, and unrecognized fonts will usually default to one
of the Times fonts (that is,
.BR R ,
.BR I ,
.BR B ,
or
.BR BI ).
.sp
.LP
An
.B "x res"
command  must precede the first
.B "x init"
command, and all
the input \fIfiles\fR should have been prepared for the same output device.
.sp
.LP
Use of the
.B -T
option is not encouraged. Its only purpose is to enable
the use of other PostScript font and device description files, that perhaps
use different resolutions, character sets, or fonts.
.sp
.LP
Although level 0 encoding is the only scheme that has been thoroughly
tested, level 2 is fast and may be worth a try.
