'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dtappsession 1 "15 Aug 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dtappsession \- start a new Application Manager session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/dt/bin/dtappsession\fR  [\fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B dtappsession
is a specialized version of the
.B Xsession
shell
script. It is an alternative to using the
.B CDE
remote login that allows
you to access a remote host without logging out of your current
.BR CDE
session.
.B dtappsession
starts a new instance of the
.BR CDE
Application Manager in its own ToolTalk\u\s-2TM\s+2\d session. It can be
used to remotely display the Application Manager back to your local display
after logging in to a remote host with the
.BR rlogin (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
A new, independent instance of
.BR ttsession (1)
starts a simple session
management window. This window displays the title
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIremote_hostname\fR: Remote Administration
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.I remote_hostname
is the system that is being accessed. The
window also displays an
.B Exit
button. Clicking
.B Exit
terminates
the ToolTalk session and all windows that are part of the session.
.sp
.LP
The Application Manager that is displayed can be used to start remote
.B CDE
actions to run in this session. Exiting the Application Manager
does not terminate the session, and it is not recommended. Clicking
.B Exit
is the recommended way to end the session. To avoid confusing the
remote
.B CDE
applications with local ones, it is recommended that a new
.B CDE
workspace be created for clients in the remote session.
.sp
.LP
The
.I hostname
is not needed when the
.B DISPLAY
environment
variable is set to the local hostname on the remote host.
.sp
.LP
On a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions, \fBdtappsession\fR
can be used for remote administration by administrative roles that have the
ability to log in to the remote host.
.sp
.LP
.B dtappsession
does not require any privilege, and it does not need to
run on a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions. When installed
in
.B /usr/dt/bin
.RB "on a Solaris system, along with the" " startApp.ds"
file,
.B dtappsession
can be used to administer the remote Solaris system
from a local system that is configured with Trusted Extensions. However, in
this case, the
.B CDE
workspace that is used for remote display must be a
normal workspace, rather than a role workspace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Remote Login and dtappsession
.sp
.LP
After creating a new
.B CDE
workspace, type the following in a terminal
window:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBrlogin \fIremote_hostname\fR
password: /*type the remote password*/

# \fBdtappsession \fIlocal_hostname\fR /* on the remote host */
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/dt/bin/startApp.ds
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
dt Korn shell script for session manager window
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdttsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
X11/CDE applications that do not register with the ToolTalk session manager
will not exit automatically when the session is terminated. Such
applications must be explicitly terminated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtfile (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR ttsession (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Chapter 14,
.I "Remote Administration in Trusted Extensions (Tasks),"
in
\fISolaris Trusted Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
