'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dumpcs 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dumpcs \- show codeset table for the current locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdumpcs\fR [\fB-0123vw\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B dumpcs
shows a list of printable characters for the user's current
locale, along with their hexadecimal code values. The display device is
assumed to be capable of displaying characters for a given locale. With no
option,
.B dumpcs
displays the entire list of printable characters for the
current locale.
.sp
.LP
With one or more numeric options specified, it shows
.B EUC
codeset(s) for
the current locale according to the numbers specified, and in order of codeset
number. Each non-printable character is represented by an asterisk "*" and
enough
.B ASCII
space character(s) to fill that codeset's column width.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Show
.B ASCII
(or
.B EUC
primary) codeset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Show
.B EUC
codeset 1, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Show
.B EUC
codeset 2, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Show
.B EUC
codeset 3, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
"Verbose". Normally, ranges of non-printable characters are collapsed into a
single line. This option produces one line for each non-printable character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Replace code values with corresponding wide character values (process
codes).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The environment variables
.B LC_CTYPE
and
.B LANG
control the character
classification throughout
.BR dumpcs .
On entry to
.BR dumpcs ,
these
environment variables are checked in that order. This implies that a new
setting for
.B LANG
does not override the setting of
.BR LC_CTYPE .
When
none of the values is valid, the character classification defaults to the
POSIX.1 "C" locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR localedef (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B dumpcs
can only handle
.B EUC
locales.
