'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dump 1 "6 Sep 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dump \- dump selected parts of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdump\fR [\fB-aCcfghLorstV\fR [\fB-p\fR]] [\fB-T\fR \fIindex\fR [\fI,\fR \fIindexn\fR]] \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdump\fR [\fB-afhorstL\fR [\fB-p\fR] [v]] \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdump\fR [\fB-hsr\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fInumber\fR [\fI,\fR \fInumbern\fR]]] \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdump\fR [\fB-hsrt\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIname\fR]] \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdump\fR utility dumps selected parts of each of its object
\fIfile\fR arguments.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdump\fR utility is best suited for use in shell scripts, whereas the
\fBelfdump\fR(1) command is recommended for more human-readable output.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
This utility will accept both object files and archives of object files. It
processes each file argument according to one or more of the following
options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps the archive header of each member of an archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps the string table(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-C\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps decoded C++ symbol table names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps each file header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-g\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps the global symbols in the symbol table of an archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps the section headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-L\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps dynamic linking information and static shared library information, if
available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps each program execution header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps relocation information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps section contents in hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps symbol table entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fIindex\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-T\fR \fIindex1\fR,\fIindex2\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Dumps only the indexed symbol table entry defined by \fIindex\fR or a range
of entries defined by \fIindex1\fB,\fIindex2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-V\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Prints version information.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following modifiers are used in conjunction with the options listed
above to modify their capabilities.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fInumber\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-d\fR \fInumber1\fR,\fInumber2\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Dumps the section number indicated by \fInumber\fR or the range of sections
starting at \fInumber1\fR and ending at \fInumber2\fR. This modifier can be
used with \fB-h\fR, \fB-s\fR, and \fB-r\fR. When \fB-d\fR is used with
\fB-h\fR or \fB-s\fR, the argument is treated as the number of a section or
range of sections. When \fB-d\fR is used with \fB-r\fR, the argument is
treated as the number of the section or range of sections to which the
relocation applies. For example, to print out all relocation entries
associated with the \fB\&.text\fR section, specify the number of the section
as the argument to \fB-d\fR. If \fB\&.text\fR is section number 2 in the
file, \fBdump\fR \fB-r\fR \fB-d\fR \fB2\fR will print all associated
entries. To print out a specific relocation section, use \fBdump
\fB-s\fB \fB-n\fB \fIname\fR for raw data output, or \fBdump
\fB-sv\fB \fB-n\fB \fIname\fR for interpreted output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fB \fIname\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Dumps information pertaining only to the named entity. This modifier can be
used with \fB-h\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-r\fR, and \fB-t\fR. When \fB-n\fR is used
with \fB-h\fR or \fB-s\fR, the argument will be treated as the name of a
section. When \fB-n\fR is used with \fB-t\fR or \fB-r\fR, the argument will
be treated as the name of a symbol. For example, \fBdump\fR \fB-t\fR
\fB-n\fR \fB\&.text\fR will dump the symbol table entry associated with the
symbol whose name is \fB\&.text\fR, where \fBdump\fR \fB-h\fR \fB-n\fR
\fB\&.text\fR will dump the section header information for the \fB\&.text\fR
section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Suppresses printing of the headings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-v\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Dumps information in symbolic representation rather than numeric. This
modifier can be used with
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(date, user id, group id)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(class, data, type, machine, version, flags)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(type, flags)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-L\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(value)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(type, flags)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(name, type)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(interpret section contents wherever possible)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(type, bind)
.RE

When \fB-v\fR is used with \fB-s\fR, all sections that can be interpreted,
such as the string table or symbol table, will be interpreted. For example,
\fBdump\fR \fB-sv\fR \fB-n\fR .symtab \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.\| will produce
the same formatted output as \fBdump\fR \fB-tv\fR \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.\|,
but \fBdump\fR \fB-s\fR \fB-n\fR .symtab \fIfilename\fR.\|.\|.\| will print
raw data in hexadecimal. Without additional modifiers, \fBdump\fR \fB-sv\fR
\fIfilename\fR.\|.\|. will dump all sections in the files, interpreting all
those that it can and dumping the rest (such as \fB\&.text\fR or
\fB\&.data\fR) as raw data.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBdump\fR utility attempts to format the information it dumps in a
meaningful way, printing certain information in character, hexadecimal,
octal, or decimal representation as appropriate.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBelfdump\fR(1), \fBnm\fR(1), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBa.out\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
