'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH echo 1 "8 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
echo \- echo arguments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/echo\fR [\fIstring\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B echo
utility writes its arguments, separated by BLANKs and
terminated by a NEWLINE, to the standard output. If there are no arguments,
only the NEWLINE character is written.
.sp
.LP
.B echo
is useful for producing diagnostics in command files, for
sending known data into a pipe, and for displaying the contents of
environment variables.
.sp
.LP
.RB "The C shell, the Korn shell, and the Bourne shell all have" " echo"
built-in commands, which, by default, is invoked if the user calls
.B echo
without a full pathname. See
.BR shell_builtins (1).
.BR sh 's
.BR echo ,
.BR ksh 's
.BR echo ,
.BR ksh93 's
.BR echo ,
and
.B /usr/bin/echo
understand the back-slashed escape characters, except
that \fBsh\fR's \fBecho\fR does not understand \fB\ea\fR as the alert
character. In addition, \fBksh\fR's and \fBksh93\fR's
.B echo
does not
have an
.B -n
option. \fBsh\fR's
.B echo
and
.B /usr/bin/echo
have
an
.B -n
option if the
.B SYSV3
environment variable is set (see
.B ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
below). \fBcsh\fR's
.B echo
and
.BR /usr/ucb/echo ,
on the other hand, have an
.B -n
option, but do not
understand the back-slashed escape characters.
.B sh
and
.BR ksh
determine whether
.B /usr/ucb/echo
is found first in the
.B PATH
and,
if so, they adapt the behavior of the
.B echo
builtin to match
.BR /usr/ucb/echo .
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I string
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A string to be written to standard output. If any operand is "\fB-n\fR", it
is treated as a string, not an option. The following character sequences is
recognized within any of the arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ea\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Alert character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eb\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Backspace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ec\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Print line without new-line. All characters following the \fB\ec\fR in the
argument are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ef\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Form-feed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\en\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
New-line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\er\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Carriage return.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\et\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Tab.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ev\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Vertical tab.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\e\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Backslash.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e0\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Where
.I n
is the 8-bit character whose
.B ASCII
code is the 1-, 2-
or 3-digit octal number representing that character.
.RE

.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Portable applications should not use
.B -n
(as the first argument) or
escape sequences.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR printf (1)
utility can be used portably to emulate any of the
traditional behaviors of the
.B echo
utility as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Solaris 2.6 operating environment or compatible version's
.B /usr/bin/echo
is equivalent to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBprintf "%b\en" "$*"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.B /usr/ucb/echo
is equivalent to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if [ "X$1" = "X-n" ]

then

        shift

        printf "%s" "$*"

else

        printf "%s\en" "$*"

fi
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.sp
.LP
New applications are encouraged to use
.B printf
instead of
.BR echo .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Finding how far below root your current directory is
located
.sp
.LP
You can use
.B echo
to determine how many subdirectories below the root
directory (\fB/\fR) is your current directory, as follows:

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Echo your current-working-directory's full pathname.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Pipe the output through
.B tr
to translate the path's embedded
slash-characters into space-characters.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Pipe that output through
.B "wc -w"
for a count of the names in your
path.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/bin/echo $PWD | tr '/' ' ' | wc -w\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR tr (1)
and
.BR wc (1)
for their functionality.

.sp
.LP
Below are the different flavors for echoing a string without a NEWLINE:
.LP
.B Example 2
/usr/bin/echo
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/bin/echo "$USER's current directory is $PWD\ec"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
sh/ksh shells
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBecho "$USER's current directory is $PWD\ec"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
csh shell
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBecho -n "$USER's current directory is $PWD"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
/usr/ucb/echo
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/ucb/echo -n "$USER's current directory is $PWD"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR echo :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SYSV3
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This environment variable is used to provide compatibility with INTERACTIVE
UNIX System and SCO UNIX installation scripts. It is intended for
compatibility only and should not be used in new scripts. This variable is
applicable only for Solaris x86 platforms, not Solaris SPARC systems.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following error values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR printf (1),
.BR shell_builtins (1),
.BR tr (1),
.BR wc (1),
.BR echo (1B),
.BR ascii (5),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When representing an 8-bit character by using the escape convention
\fB\e0\fIn\fR, the \fIn\fR must \fBalways\fR be preceded by the digit
zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.sp
.LP
For example, typing: \fBecho 'WARNING:\e\|07'\fR prints the phrase
\fBWARNING:\fR and sounds the "bell" on your terminal. The use of single (or
double) quotes (or two backslashes) is required to protect the "\|\e" that
precedes the "07".
.sp
.LP
Following the \fB\e0\fR, up to three digits are used in constructing the
octal output character. If, following the \fB\e0\fIn\fR, you want to echo
additional digits that are not part of the octal representation, you must
use the full 3-digit \fIn\fR. For example, if you want to echo "ESC 7" you
must use the three digits "033" rather than just the two digits "33" after
the \fB\e\|0\fR\&.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2 digits         Incorrect:      echo "\e0337" | od -xc
                 produces:       df0a                     (hex)
                                 337                      (ascii)
3 digits         Correct:        echo "\e00337" | od -xc
                 produces:       lb37 0a00                (hex)
                                 033 7                    (ascii)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For the octal equivalents of each character, see
.BR ascii (5).
