'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH eject 1 "8 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
eject \- eject media such as CD-ROM and floppy from drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBeject\fR [\fB-dflqt\fR] [ [\fIdevice\fR | \fInickname\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B eject
utility is used for those removable media devices that do
not have a manual eject button, or for those that might be locked due to,
for instance, being mounted. The device may be specified by its name or by a
nickname. If no device is specified, the default device is used.
.sp
.LP
Only devices that support
.B eject
under program control respond to this
command.
.sp
.LP
When
.B eject
is used on media that can only be ejected manually, it
does everything except remove the media, including unmounting the file
system if it is mounted. In this case,
.B eject
displays a message that
the media can now be manually ejected.
.sp
.LP
Do not physically eject media from a device that contains mounted file
systems.
.B eject
automatically searches for any mounted file systems
that reside on the device, and attempts to umount them prior to ejecting the
media. See \fBmount\fR(1M). If the unmount operation fails, \fBeject\fR
prints a warning message and exits. The
.B -f
option can be used to
specify an eject even if the device contains mounted partitions.
.sp
.LP
If you have inserted a floppy diskette, you might need to use
.BR volcheck (1)
before ejecting the media to inform the system the
floppy's presence.
.sp
.LP
Pressing the physical media eject button located on some drives' front
panel has the same effect as invoking
.B eject
for the respective drive.
Not all drives have this capability.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the name of the default device to be ejected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force the device to eject even if it is busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display paths and nicknames of ejectable devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Query to see if the media is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Issues the drive a CD-ROM tray close command.
.sp
Not all devices support this command.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies which device to
.BR eject ,
by the name it appears in the
directory
.BR /dev .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nickname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies which device to
.BR eject ,
by its nickname as known to this
command.
.sp
Volume label or device type (for example, cdrom or floppy0) can be used as
a nickname.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Ejecting Media
.sp
.LP
The following example ejects media by its volume label:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example> \fBeject \&'My Pictures\&'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Ejecting a Floppy Disk
.sp
.LP
The following example ejects a floppy disk from the first floppy drive:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example> \fBeject floppy0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit codes are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The operation was successful or, with the
.B -q
option, the media
.I is
in the drive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The operation was unsuccessful or, with the
.B -q
option, the media is
.I not
in the drive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid options were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An
.B ioctl()
request failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Manually ejectable media is now okay to remove.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/diskette0
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
default diskette file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/sr0
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
default
.B CD-ROM
file (deprecated)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR volcheck (1),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR rmmount (1M),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5)
