'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH elfdump 1 "3 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
elfdump \- dumps selected parts of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBelfdump\fR [\fB-cCdegGhHiklmnPrsSuvy\fR] [\fB-p | -w file\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIindex-expr\fR]
     [\fB-N\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-O\fR \fIosabi\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItype\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBelfdump\fR utility symbolically dumps selected parts of the specified
object file(s). The options allow specific portions of the file to be
displayed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBelfdump\fR utility is similar in function to the
.BR dump (1)
utility.
The
.B dump
utility offers an older and less user-friendly interface than
\fBelfdump\fR, although \fBdump\fR might be more appropriate for certain uses
such as in shell scripts.
.sp
.LP
Archive files, produced by
.BR ar (1),
can also be inspected with
\fBelfdump\fR. In this case, each object within the archive is processed using
the options supplied.
.sp
.LP
\fBelfdump\fR can display the ELF header, program header array, and section
header array for any ELF object. It is also able to display the data found in
the following types of sections:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Category                        Option       ELF Section Type
Dynamic                         -d           SHT_DYNAMIC
Global Offset Table (GOT)       -G           Special. See below.
Group                           -g           SHT_GROUP
Hardware/Software
     Capabilities               -H           SHT_SUNW_cap
Hash Table                      -h           SHT_HASH
Interpreter                     -i           Special, see below.
Move                            -m           SHT_SUNW_move
Note                            -n           SHT_NOTE
Relocation                      -r           SHT_RELA
                                             SHT_REL
Stack Unwind/Exceptions         -u           Special. See below.
Syminfo                         -y           SHT_SUNW_syminfo
Symbol Sort                     -S           SHT_SUNW_symsort
                                             SHT_SUNW_tlssort
Symbol Table                    -s           SHT_SYMTAB
                                             SHT_DYNSYM
                                             SHT_SUNW_LDYNSYM
                                             SHT_SUNW_versym
Versioning                      -v           SHT_SUNW_verdef
                                             SHT_SUNW_verneed
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Interpreter and global offset table sections do not have a special ELF section
type, but are instead implemented as
.B SHT_PROGBITS
sections with well
known names (\fB\&.interp\fR and \fB\&.got\fR respectively). \fBelfdump\fR is
able to recognize and display these special sections.
.sp
.LP
Sections used for stack unwinding and exception handling can have the ELF
section type
.BR SHT_PROGBITS ,
or
.BR SHT_AMD64_UNWIND ,
depending on the
compiler and platform involved. These sections are recognized by name:
\fB\&.eh_frame\fR, \fB\&.eh_frame_hdr\fR, and \fB\&.exception_ranges\fR.
.sp
.LP
When run without options to narrow the information displayed, \fBelfdump\fR
displays all available information for each object.
.sp
.LP
For a complete description of the displayed information, refer to the
.IR "Linker and Libraries Guide" .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps section header information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Demangles C++ symbol names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.dynamic\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the
.B ELF
header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.group\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -G
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.got\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.hash\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_cap\fR hardware and software capabilities
section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.interp\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-I\fR  \fIindex-expr\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Qualifies the sections or program headers to examine with a specific index or
index range. For example, the third section header in a file can be displayed
using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -c -I 3 \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

An
.I index-expr
can be a single non-negative integer value that specifies
a specific item, as shown in the previous example. Alternatively, an
\fIindex-expr\fR can consist of two such values separated by a colon (:),
indicating a range of items. The following example displays the third, fourth,
and fifth program headers in a file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -I 3:5 \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When specifying an index range, the second value can be omitted to indicate
the final item in the file. For example, the following statement lists all
section headers from the tenth to the end:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -c -I 10: \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See Matching Options for additional information about the matching options
(\fB-I\fR,
.BR -N ,
.BR -T ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Calculates the
.B ELF
checksum. See \fBgelf_checksum\fR(3ELF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays long section names without truncation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_move\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of \fB\&.note\fR sections. By default, \fBelfdump\fR
displays this data without interpretation in hexadecimal form. Core files are
an exception. A subset of the core file notes described in
.BR core (4)
are
interpreted by \fBelfdump\fR and displayed in a high level format: NT_PRSTATUS,
NT_PRPSINFO, NT_PLATFORM, NT_AUXV, NT_ASRS, NT_PSTATUS, NT_PSINFO, NT_PRCRED,
NT_UTSNAME, NT_LWPSTATUS, NT_LWPSINFO, NT_PRPRIV, NT_PRPRIVINFO, NT_CONTENT,
and NT_ZONENAME.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-N\fR \fIname\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Qualifies the sections or program headers to examine with a specific name. For
example, in a file that contains more than one symbol table, the
\fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table can be displayed by itself using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -N .dynsym \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

ELF program headers do not have names. If the
.B -p
option is specified,
\fIname\fR refers to the program header type, and the behavior of the \fB-N\fR
option is identical to that of the
.B -T
option. For example, the program
header that identifies an interpreter can be displayed using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -N PT_INTERP \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See Matching Options for additional information about the matching options
(\fB-I\fR,
.BR -N ,
.BR -T ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-O\fR \fIosabi\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Specifies the Operating System ABI to apply when interpreting the object.
\fIosabi\fR can be the name or value of any of the \fBELFOSABI_\fR constants
found in
.BR /usr/include/sys/elf.h .
.RB "For convenience, the" " ELFOSABI_"
prefix may be omitted from these names. Two
.I osabi
values are fully
supported:
.B solaris
is the native ABI of the Solaris operating system.
\fBnone\fR is the generic ELF ABI. Support for other operating system ABIs may
be incomplete or missing. Items for which strings are unavailable are displayed
in numeric form.
.sp
If
.B -O
is not used, and the object ELF header specifies a non-generic
ABI, the ABI specified by the object is used. If the object specifies the
generic ELF ABI, \fBelfdump\fR searches for a \fB\&.note.ABI-tag\fR section,
and if found, identifies the object as having the
.B linux
ABI. Otherwise,
an object that specifies the generic ELF ABI is assumed to conform to the
\fBsolaris\fR ABI.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the program headers. Individual program headers can be specified using
the matching options (\fB-I\fR, \fB-N\fR,
.BR -T ).
See Matching Options for
additional information.
.sp
The
.B -p
and
.B -w
options are mutually exclusive. Only one of these
options can be used in a given \fBelfdump\fR invocation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Generate and use alternative section header information based on the
information from the program headers, ignoring any section header information
contained in the file. If the file has no section headers a warning message is
printed and this option is automatically selected. Section headers are not used
by the system to execute a program. As such, a malicious program can have its
section headers stripped or altered to provide misleading information. In
contrast the program headers must be accurate for the program to be runnable.
The use of synthetic section header information derived from the program
headers allows files with altered section headers to be examined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.rel\fR[\fBa\fR] relocation sections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR, \fB\&.dynsym\fR, and
\fB\&.symtab\fR symbol table sections. For archives, the archive symbol table
is also dumped. Individual sections can be specified with the matching options
(\fB-I\fR, \fB-N\fR,
.BR -T ).
An archive symbol table can be specified using
the special section name
.BR "-N ARSYM" .
.sp
In the case of core files, the \fBshndx\fR field has the value "\fBunknown\fR"
since the field does not contain the valid values.
.sp
In addition to the standard symbol table information, the version definition
index of the symbol is also provided under the
.B ver
heading.
.sp
See Matching Options  for additional information about the matching options
(\fB-I\fR,
.BR -N ,
.BR -T ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR and \fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol
table sections sorted in the order given by the \fB\&.SUNW_dynsymsort\fR and
\fB\&.SUNW_dyntlssort\fR symbol sort sections. Thread Local Storage (TLS)
symbols are sorted by offset. Regular symbols are sorted by address. Symbols
not referenced by the sort sections are not displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Qualifies the sections or program headers to examine with a specific type. For
example, in a file that contains more than one symbol table, the
\fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table can be displayed by itself using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -T SHT_DYNSYM \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The value of
.I type
can be a numeric value, or any of the \fBSHT_\fR
symbolic names defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/elf.h .
The
.B SHT_
prefix
is optional, and
.I type
is case insensitive. Therefore, the above example
can also be written as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -T dynsym \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the
.B -p
option is specified,
.I type
refers to the program header
type, which allows for the display of specific program headers. For example,
the program header that identifies an interpreter can be displayed using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -T PT_INTERP \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The value of
.I type
can be a numeric value, or any of the \fBPT_\fR
symbolic names defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/elf.h .
The
.B PT_
prefix is
optional, and
.I type
is case insensitive. Therefore, the above example can
also be written as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -T interp \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See Matching Options for additional information about the matching options
(\fB-I\fR,
.BR -N ,
.BR -T ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of sections used for stack frame unwinding and exception
processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW\fI_version\fR version sections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Writes the contents of sections which are specified with the matching options
(\fB-I\fR, \fB-N\fR,
.BR -T )
to the named file. For example, extracting the
\fB\&.text\fR section of a file can be carried out with:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -w text.out -N .text \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See Matching Options for additional information about the matching options
(\fB-I\fR,
.BR -N ,
.BR -T ).
.sp
The
.B -p
and
.B -w
options are mutually exclusive. Only one of these
options can be used in a given \fBelfdump\fR invocation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_syminfo\fR section.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfilename\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name of the specified object file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Matching Options"
.sp
.LP
The options
.BR -I ,
.BR -N ,
and
.B -T
are collectively referred to as
the
.BR "matching options" .
These options are used to narrow the range of
program headers or sections to examine, by index, name, or type.
.sp
.LP
The exact interpretation of the matching options depends on the other options
used:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When used with the
.B -p
option, the matching options reference program
headers.
.B -I
refers to program header indexes.
.B -T
refers to program
header types. As program headers do not have names, the
.B -N
option behaves
identically to
.B -T
for program headers.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The matching options are used to select sections by index, name, or type when
used with any of the options
.BR -c ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -m ,
.BR -n ,
.BR -r ,
.BR -s ,
.BR -S ,
.BR -u ,
or
.BR -w .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If matching options are used alone without any of the options
.BR -c ,
\fB-g\fR, \fB-m\fR, \fB-n\fR, \fB-p\fB-r\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-S\fR, \fB-u\fR,
or
.BR -w ,
then \fBelfdump\fR examines each object, and displays the contents
of any sections matched.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Any number and type of matching option can be mixed in a given invocation of
\fBelfdump\fR. In this case, \fBelfdump\fR displays the superset of all items
matched by any of the matching options used. This feature allows for the
selection of complex groupings of items using the most convenient form for
specifying each item.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B liblddbg.so
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
linker debugging library
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR dump (1),
.BR nm (1),
.BR pvs (1),
\fBelf\fR(3ELF),
.BR core (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
