'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH enable 1 "5 Jun 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
enable, disable \- enable/disable LP printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/enable\fR \fIprinter\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/disable\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-W\fR] [\fB-r\fR [\fIreason\fR]] \fIprinter\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B enable
command activates printers, enabling them to print
requests submitted by the
.B lp
command.
.B enable
must be run on the
printer server.
.sp
.LP
The
.B disable
command deactivates printers, disabling them from
printing requests submitted by the
.B lp
command. By default, any
requests that are currently printing on
.I printer
are reprinted in their
entirety either on
.I printer
or another member of the same class of
printers. The
.B disable
command must be run on the print server.
.sp
.LP
Use
.B "lpstat -p"
to check the status of printers.
.sp
.LP
Generally,
.B enable
and
.B disable
are run on the print server to
control local print queues. Under some configurations, they can also be run
on client systems when IPP is being used to communicate between client and
server.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for use with
.BR disable :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Cancels any requests that are currently printing on
.IR printer .
This
option cannot be used with the
.B -W
option. If the printer is remote,
the
.B -c
option is silently ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -W
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Waits until the request currently being printed is finished before
disabling
.IR printer .
This option cannot be used with the
.BR -c
option. If the printer is remote, the
.B -W
option is silently ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fR [\fIreason\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Assigns a
.I reason
for the disabling of the printer(s). This
.I reason
applies to all printers specified. This
.I reason
is
reported by
.BR "lpstat -p" .
Enclose
.I reason
in quotes if it
contains blanks. The default reason is
.B "unknown reason"
for the existing
printer, and \fB"new printer"\fR for a printer added to the system but not
yet enabled.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported for both
.B enable
and
.BR disable :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I printer
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The name of the printer to be enabled or disabled. Specify \fIprinter\fR
using atomic or URI-style (\fIscheme\fB://\fIendpoint\fR) names. See
.BR printers.conf (4)
regarding the naming conventions for destinations.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/printers.conf
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
System printer configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User-configurable printer database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ou=printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
LDAP version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.conf.byname
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS
version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.org_dir
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlp-cmds
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR printers.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When IPP is in use, the user is prompted for a passphsrase if the remote
print service is configured to require authentication.
