'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH exec 1 "8 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exec, eval, source \- shell built-in functions to execute other commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexec\fR [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBeval\fR [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexec\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBeval\fR \fIargument\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsource\fR [\fB-h\fR] \fIname\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*exec\fR [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB*eval\fR [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fB+exec\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIname\fR] [\fIcommand\fR [\fIargument\fR .\|.\|. ]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB+eval\fR [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
The
.B exec
command specified by the arguments is executed in place of
this shell without creating a new process. Input/output arguments and appear
and, if no other arguments are specified, cause the shell input/output to be
modified.
.sp
.LP
The
.IR argument "s to the"
.B eval
built-in are read as input to the
shell and the resulting command(s) executed.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
.B exec
executes
.B command
in place of the current shell, which
terminates.
.sp
.LP
.B eval
reads its
.IR argument "s as input to the shell and executes the"
resulting command(s). This is usually used to execute commands generated as
the result of command or variable substitution.
.sp
.LP
.B source
reads commands from
.IR name .
.B source
commands can be
nested, but if they are nested too deeply the shell can run out of file
descriptors. An error in a sourced file at any level terminates all nested
.B source
commands.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Place commands from the file
.I name
on the history list without
executing them.
.RE

.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
With the
.B exec
built-in, if
.I arg
is specified, the command
specified by the arguments is executed in place of this shell without
creating a new process. Input/output arguments can appear and affect the
current process. If no arguments are specified the effect of this command is
to modify file descriptors as prescribed by the input/output redirection
list. In this case, any file descriptor numbers greater than 2 that are
opened with this mechanism are closed when invoking another program.
.sp
.LP
The arguments to
.B eval
are read as input to the shell and the resulting
command(s) executed.
.sp
.LP
On this man page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two *
(asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.B I/O
redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
.B exec
is a special built-in command that can be used to manipulate file
descriptors or to replace the current shell with a new command.
.sp
.LP
If
.I command
is specified, then the current shell process is replaced by
.I command
rather than running
.I command
and waiting for it to
complete. There is no need to use
.B exec
to enhance performance since the
shell implicitly uses the
.B exec
mechanism internally whenever possible.

.sp
.LP
If no operands are specified,
.B exec
can be used to open or close files,
or to manipulate file descriptors from
.B 0
to
.B 9
in the current
shell environment using the standard redirection mechanism available with all
commands. The close-on-exec flags is set on file descriptor numbers greater
than
.B 2
that are opened this way so that they are closed when another
program is invoked.
.sp
.LP
Because
.B exec
is a special command, any failure causes the script that
invokes it to exit. This can be prevented by invoking
.B exec
from the
.B command
utility.
.sp
.LP
.B exec
cannot be invoked from a restricted shell to create files or to
open a file for writing or appending.
.sp
.LP
.B eval
is a shell special built-in command that constructs a command by
concatenating the
.IR argument "s together, separating each with a space. The"
resulting string is taken as input to the shell and evaluated in the current
environment. command words are expanded twice, once to construct
.IR argument ,
and again when the shell executes the constructed command. It
is not an error if
.I argument
is not specified.
.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.B ksh93
commands that are preceded by one or two
.B +
symbols are special built-in commands and are treated specially in
the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
They are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words following a command preceded by
.B ++
that are in the format of a
variable assignment are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and field splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR "ksh93 exec" :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.B argv[0]
is set to
.I name
for command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Clear all environment variables before executions except variable
assignments that are part of the current
.B exec
command.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR exec :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1-125
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A redirection error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 127
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.I command
was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 126
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.I command
was found, but it is not an executable utility.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR exec .
If
.I command
is
specified,
.B exec
does not return.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion. All I/O redirections were successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR eval :
.sp
.LP
If
.I argument
is not specified, the exit status is
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
it is the exit status of the command defined by the
.IR argument
operands.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
