'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH exit 1 "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exit, return, goto \- shell built-in functions to enable the execution of
the shell to advance beyond its sequence of steps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexit\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBreturn\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexit\fR [( \fIexpr\fR )]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBgoto\fR \fIlabel\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*exit\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB*return\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fB+exit\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB+return\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
.B exit
causes the calling shell or shell script to exit with the exit
status specified by
.IR n .
If
.I n
is omitted the exit status is that
of the last command executed (an
.B EOF
also causes the shell to exit.)
.sp
.LP
.B return
causes a function to exit with the return value specified by
.IR n .
If
.I n
is omitted, the return status is that of the last
command executed.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
.B exit
causes the calling shell or shell script to exit, either with
the value of the status variable or with the value specified by the
expression
.BR expr .
.sp
.LP
The
.B goto
built-in uses a specified
.I label
as a search string
amongst commands. The shell rewinds its input as much as possible and
searches for a line of the form
.IB label :
possibly preceded by
space or tab characters. Execution continues after the indicated line. It is
an error to jump to a label that occurs between a
.B while
or
.B for
built-in command and its corresponding
.BR end .
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
.B exit
causes the calling shell or shell script to exit with the exit
status specified by
.IR n .
The value is the least significant 8 bits of
the specified status. If
.I n
is omitted then the exit status is that of
the last command executed. When
.B exit
occurs when executing a trap, the
last command refers to the command that executed before the trap was
invoked. An end-of-file also causes the shell to exit except for a shell
which has the
.B ignoreeof
option (See
.B set
below) turned on.
.sp
.LP
.B return
causes a shell function or \fB\&'.'\fR script to return to the
invoking script with the return status specified by
.IR n .
The value is
the least significant 8 bits of the specified status. If
.I n
is omitted
then the return status is that of the last command executed. If
.B return
is invoked while not in a function or a \fB\&'.'\fR script, then it is the
same as an
.BR exit .
.sp
.LP
On this man page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two
.B *
(asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.B I/O
redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by
.B **
that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and word splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
.B exit
is shell special built-in that causes the shell that invokes it
to exit. Before exiting the shell, if the
.B EXIT
trap is set, it is
invoked.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified, it is used to set the exit status.
.sp
.LP
.B return
is a shell special built-in that causes the function or dot
script that invokes it to exit. If
.B return
is invoked outside of a
.B function
or dot script it is equivalent to
.BR exit .
.sp
.LP
If
.B return
is invoked inside a function defined with the
.B function
reserved word syntax, then any
.B EXIT
trap set within the
function is invoked in the context of the caller before the function
returns.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified, it is used to set the exit status.
.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.B ksh93
commands that are preceded by one or two
.B +
symbols are special built-in commands and are treated specially in
the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
They are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words following a command preceded by
.B ++
that are in the format of a
variable assignment are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and field splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified for
.BR exit ,
the exit status is the least
significant eight bits of the value of
.IR n .
Otherwise, the exit status
is the exit status of preceding command. When invoked inside a trap, the
preceding command means the command that invoked the trap.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified for
.BR return ,
the exit status is the least
significant eight bits of the value of
.IR n .
Otherwise, the exit status
is the exit status of preceding command.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR break (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
