'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH expand 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
expand, unexpand \- expand TAB characters to SPACE characters, and vice
versa
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBexpand\fR [\fB-t\fR \fItablist\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBexpand\fR [\fB-\fItabstop\fR] [\fB-\fItab1,\fR \fItab2,.\fR \fI\&.\fR \fI\&.,\fR \fItabn\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunexpand\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItablist\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B expand
utility copies
.IR file s
(or the standard input) to the
standard output, with TAB characters expanded to SPACE characters. BACKSPACE
characters are preserved into the output and decrement the column count for
TAB calculations.
.B expand
is useful for pre-processing character files
(before sorting, looking at specific columns, and so forth) that contain TAB
characters.
.sp
.LP
.B unexpand
copies
.IR file s
(or the standard input) to the standard
output, putting TAB characters back into the data. By default, only leading
SPACE and TAB characters are converted to strings of tabs, but this can be
overridden by the
.B -a
option (see the OPTIONS section below).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.BR expand :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I tablist
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Specifies the tab stops. The argument
.I tablist
must consist of a
single positive decimal integer or multiple positive decimal integers,
separated by blank characters or commas, in ascending order. If a single
number is given, tabs will be set
.I tablist
column positions apart
instead of the default
.BR 8 .
If multiple numbers are given, the tabs will
be set at those specific column positions.
.sp
Each tab-stop position
.I N
must be an integer value greater than zero,
and the list must be in strictly ascending order. This is taken to mean
that, from the start of a line of output, tabbing to position
.I N
causes
the next character output to be in the
.RI ( N +1)th
column position on that
line.
.sp
In the event of
.B expand
having to process a tab character at a
position beyond the last of those specified in a multiple tab-stop list, the
tab character is replaced by a single space character in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI - tabstop
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Specifies as a single argument, sets TAB characters
.I tabstop
SPACE
characters apart instead of the default
.BR 8 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\fItab1\fI,\|tab2,.\|.\|.,tabn\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Sets TAB characters at the columns specified by
\fB-\fItab1,tab2,.\|.\|.,\|tabn\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.BR unexpand :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Inserts TAB characters when replacing a run of two or more SPACE characters
would produce a smaller output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I tablist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the tab stops. The option-argument
.I tablist
must be a single
argument consisting of a single positive decimal integer or multiple
positive decimal integers, separated by blank characters or commas, in
ascending order.  If a single number is given, tabs will be set
.I tablist
column positions apart instead of the default
.BR 8 .
If
multiple numbers are given, the tabs will be set at those specific column
positions. Each tab-stop position
.I N
must be an integer value greater
than zero, and the list must be in strictly ascending order. This is taken
to mean that, from the start of a line of output, tabbing to position
.I N
will cause the next character output to be in the
.RI ( N +1)th
column position on that line. When the
.B -t
option is not specified, the
default is the equivalent of specifying
.B "-t 8"
(except for the
interaction with
.BR -a ,
described below).
.sp
No space-to-tab character conversions occur for characters at positions
beyond the last of those specified in a multiple tab-stop list.
.sp
When
.B -t
is specified, the presence or absence of the
.B -a
option
is ignored; conversion will not be limited to the processing of leading
blank characters.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following ooperand is supported for
.B expand
and
.BR unexpand :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The path name of a text file to be used as input.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.B expand
and
.BR unexpand :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIenabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR tabs (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
