'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH factor 1 "31 Jan 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
factor \- obtain the prime factors of a number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfactor\fR [\fIinteger\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B factor
writes to standard input all prime factors for any positive
integer less than or equal to 10^14. The prime factors are written the proper
number of times.
.sp
.LP
If
.BR factor " is used "
.I without
an argument, it waits for an integer to
be entered. After entry of the integer, it factors it, writes its prime factors
the proper number of times, and then waits for another integer.
.B factor
exits if a 0 or any non-numeric character is entered.
.sp
.LP
If
.B factor
is invoked
.I with
an argument
.RI ( integer ),
it writes
the integer, factors it and writes all the prime factors as described above,
and then exits. If the argument is 0 or non-numeric,
.B factor
writes a 0
and then exits.
.sp
.LP
The maximum time to factor an integer is proportional to sqrt(n), where
.I n
is the integer which is entered.
.B factor
will take this time when
.I n
is prime or the square of a prime.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I integer
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Any positive integer less than or equal to 10^14.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
.B factor
prints the error message
.B Ouch!
for input out of range or
for garbage input.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
