'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH filesync 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
filesync \- synchronize ordinary, directory or special files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfilesync\fR [\fB-aehmnqvy\fR] [\fB-o\fR src | dst]
     [\fB-f\fR src | dst | old | new] [\fB-r\fR \fIdirectory\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfilesync\fR [\fB-aehmnqvy\fR] \fB-s\fR \fIsource-dir\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdest-dir\fR \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfilesync\fR utility \fIsynchronizes\fR files between multiple
computer systems, typically a server and a portable computer. \fBfilesync\fR
synchronizes ordinary, directory or special files. Although intended for use
on nomadic systems,
.B filesync
is useful for backup and file replication
on more permanently connected systems.
.sp
.LP
If files are synchronized between systems, the corresponding files on each
of the systems are
.IR identical .
Changing a file on one or both of the
systems causes the files to become different (not synchronized). In order to
make the files identical again, the differences between the files must be
.IR reconciled .
See
.B "Reconciling and Synchronizing Files"
for
specific details about how
.B filesync
reconciles and synchronizes
files.
.sp
.LP
There are two forms of the
.B filesync
command. The first form of
.B filesync
is invoked without file arguments. This form of
.B filesync
reconciles differences between the files and systems
specified in the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file. \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR
is a packing rules list for
.B filesync
and
.BR cachefspack ,
and
contains a list of files to be kept synchronized. See
.BR packingrules (4)
and
.BR cachefspack (1M).
.sp
.LP
The second form of
.B filesync
copies specific files from a directory on
the source system to a directory on the destination system. In addition,
this form of
.B filesync
adds the file or files specified as arguments
(\fIfilename\fR) to
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
See
.B -s
and
.B -d
for
information about specifying directories on source and destination systems.
See
.B OPERANDS
for details about specifying file (\fIfilename\fR)
arguments.
.sp
.LP
Multiple
.B filesync
commands are cumulative (that is, the specified
files are added to the already existing packing rules file list). See
\fBMultiple filesync Commands\fR.
.SS "Reconciling and Synchronizing Files"
.sp
.LP
.B filesync
synchronizes files between computer systems by performing
the following two tasks:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
.B filesync
examines the directories and files specified in the packing
rules file on both systems, and determines whether or not they are
identical. Any file that differs requires reconciliation.
.sp
.B filesync
also maintains a baseline summary in the
.B $HOME/.filesync-base
file for all of the files that are being
monitored. This file lists the names, types, and sizes of all files as of
the last reconciliation.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Based on the information contained in the baseline file and the specified
options (see
.BR "Resolving filesync Conflicts" ),
.B filesync
determines
which of the various copies is the correct one, and makes the corresponding
changes to the other system. Once this has been done, the two copies are,
again, identical (synchronized).
.sp
If a source file has changed and the destination file has not, the changes
on the source system are propagated to the destination system. If a
destination file has changed and the corresponding source file has not, the
changes on the destination file are propagated to the source system. If both
systems have changed (and the files are not still identical) a warning
message will be printed out, asking the user to resolve the conflict
manually. See
.BR "Resolving filesync Conflicts" .
.RE
.SS "Resolving filesync Conflicts"
.sp
.LP
In cases where files on both sides have changed,
.B filesync
attempts
to determine which version should be chosen. If
.B filesync
cannot
automatically determine which version should be selected, it prints out a
warning message and leaves the two incompatible versions of the file
unreconciled.
.sp
.LP
In these cases, you must either resolve the differences manually, or tell
.B filesync
how to choose which file should win. Use the
.B -o
and
.B -f
options to tell
.B filesync
how to resolve conflicts (see
.BR OPTIONS ).
.sp
.LP
Alternatively, for each conflicting file, you can examine the two versions,
determine which one should be kept, and manually bring the two versions into
agreement (by copying, deleting, or changing the ownership or protection to
be correct). You can then re-run
.B filesync
to see whether or not any
other conflicts remain.
.SS "Packing Rules File"
.sp
.LP
The packing rules file
.B $HOME/.packingrules
contains a list of files
to be kept synchronized. The syntax of this file is described in
.BR packingrules (4).
.sp
.LP
The
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file is automatically created if users invoke
.B filesync
with filename arguments. By using
.B filesync
options,
users can augment the packing rules in
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
.sp
.LP
Many users choose to create the packing rules file manually and edit it by
hand. Users can edit
.B $HOME/.packingrules
(using any editor) to
permanently change the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file, or to gain access to
more powerful options  that are not available from the command line (such as
.B IGNORE
commands). It is much easier to enter complex wildcard
expressions by editing the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file.
.SS "Baseline File"
.sp
.LP
.B $HOME/.filesync-base
is the
.B filesync
baseline summary file.
.B filesync
uses the information in
.B $HOME/.filesync-base
to
identify the differences between files during the reconciliation and
synchronization process. Users do not create or edit the baseline file. It
is created automatically by
.B filesync
and records the last known state
of agreement between all of the files being maintained.
.SS "Multiple filesync Commands"
.sp
.LP
Over a period of time, the set of files you want to keep synchronized can
change. It is common, for instance, to want to keep files pertaining to only
a few active projects on your notebook. If you continue to keep files
associated with every project you have ever worked on synchronized, your
notebook's disk will fill up with old files. Each
.B filesync
command
will waste a lot of time updating files you no longer care about.
.sp
.LP
If you delete the files from your notebook,
.B filesync
will want to
perform the corresponding deletes on the server, which would not be what you
wanted. Rather, you would like a way to tell
.B filesync
to stop
synchronizing some of the files. There are two ways to do this:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Edit
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
Delete the rules for the files that you
want to delete.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Delete
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
Use the
.B filesync
command to
specify the files that you want synchronized.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Either way works, and you can choose the one that seems easiest to you. For
minor changes, it is probably easier to just edit
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
For major changes it is probably easier to start from scratch.
.sp
.LP
Once
.B filesync
is no longer synchronizing a set of files, you can
delete them from your notebook without having any effect on the server.
.SS "Nomadic Machines"
.sp
.LP
When using
.B filesync
to keep files synchronized between nomadic
machines and a server, store the packing rules and baseline files on the
nomadic machines, not the server. If, when logged into your notebook, the
.B HOME
environment variable does not normally point to a directory on
your notebook, you can use the
.B FILESYNC
environment variable to
specify an alternate location for the packing rules and baseline files.
.sp
.LP
Each nomadic machine should carry its own packing rules and baseline file.
Incorrect file synchronization can result if a server carries a baseline
file and multiple nomadic machines attempt to reconcile against the server's
baseline file. In this case, a nomadic machine could be using a baseline
file that does not accurately describe the state of its files. This might
result in incorrect reconciliations.
.sp
.LP
To safeguard against the dangers associated with a single  baseline file
being shared by more than two machines,
.B filesync
adds a default rule
to each new packing rules file. This default rule prevents the packing
rules and  baseline files from being copied.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Force the checking of Access Control Lists (\fBACL\fRs )  and attempt to
make them agree for all new and changed files. If it is not possible to set
the
.B ACL
for a particular file, \fBfilesync\fR stops \fBACL\fR
synchronization for that file.
.sp
Some file systems do not support
.BR ACL "s . It is not possible to"
synchronize \fBACL\fRs between file systems that support \fBACL\fRs and
those that do not; attempting to do so will result in numerous error
messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " dest-dir"
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Specify the directory on the destination system into which \fIfilename\fR
is to be copied. Use with the \fB-s\fI source-dir\fR option and the
.I filename
operand. See
.B -s
and
.BR OPERANDS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Flag all differences. It may not be possible to resolve all conflicts
involving modes and ownership (unless
.B filesync
is being run with root
privileges). If you cannot change the ownership or protections on a file,
.B filesync
will normally ignore conflicts in ownership and protection.
If you specify the
.B -e
(everything must agree) flag, however,
.B filesync
will flag these differences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fB src\fR | \fBdst\fR | \fBold\fR | \fBnew\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The \fB-f\fR option tells \fBfilesync\fR how to resolve conflicting
changes. If a file has been changed on both systems, and an
.B -f
option
has been specified,
.B filesync
will retain the changes made on the
favored system and discard the changes made on the unfavored system.
.sp
Specify
.B "-f src"
to favor the  source-system file. Specify
.B -f dst
to favor the destination-system file. Specify \fB-f\fR
.B old
to favor the older version of the file. Specify \fB-f new\fR
to favor the newer version of the file.
.sp
It is possible to specify the
.B -f
and
.B -o
options in
combination if they both specify the same preference  (\fBsrc\fR and\fB dst\fR). If \fB-f\fR and  \fB-o\fR conflict, the  \fB-f\fR option is
ignored. See the
.B -o
option description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Halt on error. Normally, if
.B filesync
encounters a read or write error
while copying files, it notes the error and the program continues, in an
attempt to reconcile other files. If the
.B -h
option is specified,
.B filesync
will immediately halt when one of these errors occurs and
will not try to process any more files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Ensure that both copies of the file have the same modification time. The
modification time for newly copied files is set to the time of
reconciliation by default. File changes are ordered by increasing
modification times so that the propagated files have the same relative
modification time ordering as the original changes. Users should be warned
that there is usually some time skew between  any two systems, and
transferring modification times from one system to another can occasionally
produce strange results.
.sp
There are instances in which using
.B filesync
to update some (but not
all) files in a directory will confuse the
.B make
program. If, for
instance, \fBfilesync\fR is keeping  \fB\&.c\fR files synchronized, but
ignoring \fB\&.o\fR files, a changed  \fB\&.c\fR file may show up with a
modification time prior to a  \fB\&.o\fR file that was built from a prior
version of the  \fB\&.c\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Do not really make the changes. If the
.B -n
option is specified,
.B filesync
determines what changes have been made to files, and what
reconciliations are required and displays this information on the standard
output. No changes are made to files, including the packing rules file.
.sp
Specifying both the
.B -n
and
.B -o
options causes
.B filesync
to
analyze the prevailing system and report the changes that have been made on
that system. Using
.B -n
and
.B -o
in combination is useful if your
machine is disconnected (and you cannot access the server) but you want to
.RB "know what changes have been made on the local machine. See the" " -o"
option description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o src | dst
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The
.B -o
option forces a one-way reconciliation, favoring either the
source system (\fBsrc\fR) or destination system
.RB ( dst ).
.sp
Specify
.B "-o src"
to propagate changes only from the source system
to the destination system. Changes made on the destination system are
ignored.
.B filesync
aborts if it cannot access a source or destination
directory.
.sp
Specify
.B "-o dst"
to propagate changes only from the destination
system to the source system. Changes made on the source system are ignored.
.B filesync
aborts if it cannot access a source or destination
directory.
.sp
Specifying
.B -n
with the
.B -o
option causes
.B filesync
to
analyze the prevailing system and reports on what changes have been made on
that system. Using
.B -n
and
.B -o
in combination is useful if a
machine is disconnected (and there is no access to the server), but you want
.RB "to know what changes have been made on the local machine. See the" " -n"
option description.
.sp
It is possible to specify the
.B -o
and
.B -f
options in combination
if they both specify the same preference (\fBsrc\fR or
.BR dst ).
If
.B -o
and \fB-f\fR options conflict, the \fB-f\fR option will be ignored.
See the
.B -f
option description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Suppress the standard
.B filesync
messages that describe each
reconciliation action as it is performed.
.sp
The standard
.B filesync
message describes each reconciliation action in
the form of a UNIX shell command (for example,
.BR mv ,
.BR ln ,
.BR cp ,
.BR rm ,
.BR chmod ,
.BR chown ,
.BR chgrp ,
.BR setfacl ,
and so
forth).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r " directory"
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Limit the reconciliation to
.IR directory .
Specify multiple directories
with multiple
.B -r
specifications.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " source-dir"
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Specify the directory on the source system from which the  \fIfilename\fR
to be copied is located. Use with the  \fB-d\fI dest-dir\fR option and
the
.I filename
operand. See the
.B -d
option description and
.BR OPERANDS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Display additional information about each file comparison as it is made on
the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Bypass safety check prompts. Nomadic machines occasionally move between
domains, and many of the files on which
.B filesync
operates are expected
to be accessed by NFS. There is a danger that someday
.B filesync
will
be asked to reconcile local changes against the wrong file system or server.
This could result in a large number of inappropriate copies and deletions.
To prevent such a mishap,
.B filesync
performs a few safety checks prior
to reconciliation. If large numbers of files are likely to  be deleted, or
if high level directories have changed their I-node numbers,  \fBfilesync\fR
prompts for a confirmation before reconciliation. If you know that this is
likely, and do not want to be prompted, use the
.B -y
(yes) option to
automatically confirm these prompts.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filename
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name of the ordinary file, directory, symbolic link, or special file in
the specified source directory (\fIsource-dir\fR) to be synchronized.
Specify multiple files by separating each filename by spaces. Use the
.I filename
operand with the
.B -s
and
.B -d
options. See
.BR OPTIONS .
.sp
If
.I filename
is an ordinary file, that ordinary file will be
replicated (with the same
.IR filename )
in the specified destination
directory
.RI ( dest-dir ).
.sp
If
.I filename
is a directory, that directory and all of the files and
subdirectories under it will be replicated (recursively) in the specified
destination directory
.RI ( dest-dir ).
.sp
If
.I filename
is a symbolic link, a copy of that symbolic link will be
replicated in the specified destination directory
.RI ( dest-dir ).
.sp
If
.I filename
is a special file, a special file with the same major or
minor device numbers will be replicated in the specified destination
directory. (\fIdest-dir).\fR Only super-users can use \fBfilesync\fR to
create special files.
.sp
Files created in the destination directory (\fIdest-dir\fR) will have the
same owner, group and other permissions as the files in the source
directory.
.sp
If
.I filename
contains escaped shell wildcard characters, the wildcard
characters are stored in
.B $HOME/.packingrules
and evaluated each time
.B filesync
is run.
.sp
For example, the following would make sure that the two specified files,
currently in
.BR $RHOME ,
were replicated in
.BR $HOME :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfilesync \fB-s\fB $RHOME  \fB-d\fB $HOME a.c \|b.c\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following example would ensure that all of the
.B *.c
files in
.B $RHOME
were replicated in
.BR $HOME ,
even if those files were not
created until later.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfilesync \fB-s\fB $RHOME \fB-d\fB $HOME '*.c'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If any of the destination files already exist,
.B filesync
ensures that
they are identical and issues warnings if they are not.
.sp
Once files have been copied, the distinction between the source and
destination is a relatively arbitrary  one (except for its use in the
.B -o
and
.B -f
switches).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FILESYNC
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the default location of the
.B filesync
packing rules and
baseline files. The default value for this variable is
.BR $HOME .
The
suffixes \fB\&.packingrules\fR and \fB\&.filesync-base\fR will be appended
to form the names of the packing rules and baseline files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_MESSAGES
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Determines how diagnostic and informative messages are presented. In the
"C" locale, the messages are presented in the default form found in the
program itself (in most cases, U.S. English).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
Normally, if all files are already up-to-date, or if all files were
successfully reconciled,
.B filesync
will exit with a status of
.BR 0 .
However, if either the
.B -n
option was specified or any errors occurred,
the exit status will be the logical OR of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
No conflicts, all files up to date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Some resolvable conflicts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Some conflicts requiring manual resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Some specified files did not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 8
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Insufficient permission for some files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 16
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Errors accessing packing rules or baseline file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 64
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Unable to access either or both of the specified
.B src
or
.BR dst
directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 128
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Miscellaneous other failures.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.packingrules
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
list of files to be kept synchronized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.filesync-base
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
baseline summary file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cachefspack (1M),
.BR packingrules (4),
.BR attributes (5)
