'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH finger 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
finger \- display information about local and remote users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfinger\fR [\fB-bfhilmpqsw\fR] [\fIusername\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfinger\fR [\fB-l\fR]
     [\fIusername@hostname\fR 1 [\fI@hostname\fR 2 \fI\&..\fR \fI\&.@hostname\fR n].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfinger\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fI@hostname\fR 1 [\fI@hostname\fR 2 \fI\&..\fR \fI\&.@hostname\fR n].\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
By default, the
.B finger
command displays in multi-column format the
following information about each logged-in user:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
user name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
user's full name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
terminal name (prepended with a `*\|' (asterisk)  if write-permission is
denied)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
idle time
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
login time
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
host name, if logged in remotely
.RE
.sp
.LP
Idle time is in minutes if it is a single integer, in hours and minutes if a
`:\|' (colon)  is present, or in days and hours if a `d' is present.
.sp
.LP
When one or more
.I username
arguments are given, more detailed information
is given for each
.I username
specified, whether they are logged in or not.
.I username
must be that of a local user, and may be a first or last name,
or an account name. Information is presented in multi-line format as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user name and the user's full name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user's home directory and login shell
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
time the user logged in if currently logged in, or the time the user last
logged in; and the terminal or host from which the user logged in
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
last time the user received mail, and the last time the user read mail
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the first line of the
.B $HOME/.project
file, if it exists
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the contents of the
.B $HOME/.plan
file, if it exists
.RE
.sp
.LP
Note: when the comment (GECOS) field in
.B /etc/passwd
includes a comma,
.B finger
does not display the information following the comma.
.sp
.LP
If the arguments
\fIusername@hostname\fR1[\fI@hostname\fR2\fI\|.\|.\|.@hostname\fRn]
or \fI@hostname\fR1[\fI@hostname\fR2\fI\|.\|.\|.@hostname\fRn] are used, the
request is sent first to
.BR hostname n
and forwarded through each
\fBhostname\fRn-1 to
.BR hostname 1.
The program uses the \fBfinger user information protocol\fR (see RFC 1288) to query that remote host for
information about the named user (if
.I username
is specified), or about
each logged-in user. The information displayed is server dependent.
.sp
.LP
.RB "As required by RFC 1288, " finger " passes only printable, 7-bit " ASCII 
data. This behavior may be modified by a system administrator by using the
.B PASS
option in
.BR /etc/default/finger .
Specifying
.BR PASS=low
allows all characters less than decimal 32 ASCII. Specifying
.B PASS=high
allows all characters greater than decimal 126
.BR ASCII .
.B PASS=low,high
or
.B PASS=high,low
allows both characters less than 32 and greater than 126
to pass through.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported, except that the 
.I username@hostname
form supports only the
.B -l
option:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Suppresses printing the user's home directory and shell in a long format
printout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Suppresses printing the header that is normally printed in a non-long format
printout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Suppresses printing of the \fB\&.project\fR file in a long format printout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Forces "idle" output format, which is similar to short format except that only
the login name, terminal, login time, and idle time are printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Forces long output format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Matches arguments only on user name (not first or last name).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Suppresses printing of the \fB\&.plan\fR file in a long format printout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Forces quick output format, which is similar to short format except that only
the login name, terminal, and login time are printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Forces short output format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Suppresses printing the full name in a short format printout.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.plan
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
user's plan
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.project
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
user's projects
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/default/finger
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B finger
options file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/lastlog
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
time of last login
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/utmpx
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
accounting
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmds
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR whois (1),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Zimmerman, D.,
.IR "The Finger User Information Protocol" ,
RFC 1288, Center
for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science (DIMACS), Rutgers
University, December 1991.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B "finger user information protocol"
limits the options that may be used
with the remote form of this command.
