'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmli 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fmli \- invoke FMLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmli\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIalias_file\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcommand_file\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR \fIinitialization_file\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfmli\fR command invokes the Form and Menu Language Interpreter and
opens the frame(s) specified by the \fIfilename\fR argument. The
\fIfilename\fR argument is the pathname of the initial frame definition
file(s), and must follow the naming convention \fBMenu.\fIxxx,\fR
\fBForm.\fIxxx,\fR or \fBText.\fIxxx\fR for a menu, form or text frame
respectively, where
.I xxx
is any string that conforms to
.BR UNIX
system file naming conventions. The
.B FMLI
descriptor \fBlifetime\fR will
be ignored for all frames opened by argument to
.BR fmli .
These frames have
a lifetime of
.B immortal
by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fI alias_file\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
If
.B -a
is specified, \fIalias_file\fR is the name of a file which
contains lines of the form \fBalias=\fIpathname\fR. Thereafter,
\fB$alias\fR can be used in definition files to simplify references to
objects or devices with lengthy  pathnames, or to define a search path
(similar to
.B $PATH
in the
.B UNIX
system shell).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fI command_file\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
If
.B -c
is specified, \fIcommand_file\fR is the name of a file in which
default
.B FMLI
commands can be disabled, and new application-specific
commands can be defined. The contents of \fIcommand_file\fR are reflected in
the
.B FMLI
Command Menu.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fI initialization_file\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
If
.B -i
is specified, \fIinitialization_file\fR is the name of a file in
which the following characteristics of the application as a whole can be
specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A transient introductory frame displaying product information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A banner, its position, and other elements of the banner line
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Color attributes for all elements of the screen
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Screen Labeled Keys (SLKs) and their layout on the screen.
.RE

.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of the \fBfmli\fR command.
.sp
.LP
To invoke
.BR fmli :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% fmli Menu.start\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.B Menu.start
is an example of \fIfilename\fR named according to the
file name conventions for menu definition files explained above.

.sp
.LP
To invoke \fBfmli\fR and name an initialization file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% fmli -i init.myapp Menu.start\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.B init.myapp
is an example of
.IR initialization_file .

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.SS "Variables"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOADPFK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Leaving this environment variable unset tells FMLI, for certain terminals
like the AT&T 5620 and 630, to download its equivalent character sequences for
using function keys into the terminal's programmable function keys, wiping out
any settings the user may already have set in the function keys. Setting
\fBLOADPFK=NO\fR in the environment will prevent this downloading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B COLUMNS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Can be used to override the width of the logical screen defined for the
terminal set in
.BR TERM .
For terminals with a 132-column mode, for example,
invoking
.B FMLI
with the line
.sp
\fBCOLUMNS=132 fmli \fIframe-file\fR
.sp
will allow this wider screen width to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LINES
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Can be used to override the length of the logical screen defined for the
terminal set in
.BR TERM .
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/bin/fmli\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR vsig (1F),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
If \fIfilename\fR is not supplied to the \fBfmli\fR command, \fBfmli\fR
returns the message:
.sp
.LP
\fBInitial object must be specified.\fR
.sp
.LP
If \fIfilename\fR does not exist or is not readable, \fBfmli\fR returns an
error message and exits. The example command line above returns the following
message and exits:
.sp
.LP
\fBCan't open object "Menu.start"\fR
.sp
.LP
If \fIfilename\fR exists, but does not start with one of the three correct
object names (\fBMenu.\fR,
.BR Form. ,
or
.BR Text. )
or if it is named
correctly but does not contain the proper data, \fBfmli\fR starts to build the
screen by putting out the screen labels for function keys, after which it
flashes the message:
.sp
.LP
\fBI do not recognize that kind of object\fR
.sp
.LP
and then exits.
