'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmt 1 "9 May 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fmt \- simple text formatters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmt\fR [\fB-cs\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fR | \fB-width\fR] [\fIinputfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B fmt
is a simple text formatter that fills and joins lines  to produce
output lines of (up to) the number of characters specified in the
\fB-w\fI width\fR option. The default  \fIwidth\fR is
.BR 72 .
.B fmt
concatenates the \fIinputfile\fRs listed as arguments. If none are given,
.B fmt
formats text from the standard input.
.sp
.LP
Blank lines are preserved in the output, as is the spacing between words.
.B fmt
does not fill nor split lines beginning with a `\fB\&.\fR' (dot),
for compatibility with
.BR nroff (1).
Nor does it fill or split a set of
contiguous non-blank lines which is determined to be a mail header, the
first line of which must begin with "\fBFrom\fR".
.sp
.LP
Indentation is preserved in the output, and input lines with differing
indentation are not joined (unless
.B -c
is used).
.sp
.LP
.B fmt
can also be used as an in-line text filter for
.BR vi (1).
The
.B vi
command:
.sp
.LP
.B !}fmt
.sp
.LP
reformats the text between the cursor location and the end of the
paragraph.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Crown margin mode. Preserve the indentation of the first two lines within a
paragraph, and align the left margin of each subsequent line with that of
the second line. This is useful for tagged paragraphs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Split lines only. Do not join short lines to form longer ones. This
prevents sample lines of code, and other such formatted text, from being
unduly combined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fI width\fR | \fB-\fIwidth\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Fill output lines to up to
.I width
columns.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I inputfile
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Input file.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for a description of the
.B LC_CTYPE
environment
variable that affects the execution of
.BR fmt .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nroff (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fB-\fIwidth\fR option is acceptable for \fBBSD\fR compatibility,
but it may go away in future releases.
