'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmtmsg 1 "20 Jul 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fmtmsg \- display a message on stderr or system console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmtmsg\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIsubclass\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIseverity\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIaction\fR] \fItext\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Based on a message's classification component, the
.B fmtmsg
utility
either writes a formatted message to
.B stderr
or writes a formatted
message to the console.
.sp
.LP
A formatted message consists of up to five standard components (see
environment variable
.B MSGVERB
in the ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES section of
this page). The classification and subclass components are not displayed as
part of the standard message, but rather define the source of the message
and direct the display of the formatted message.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I class
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Describes the source of the message. Valid keywords are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hard
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The source of the condition is hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B soft
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The source of the condition is software.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B firm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The source of the condition is firmware.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I subclass
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A list of keywords (separated by commas) that further defines the message
and directs the display of the message. Valid keywords are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B appl
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The condition originated in an application. This keyword should not be used
in combination with either
.B util
or
.BR opsys .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B util
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The condition originated in a utility. This keyword should not be used in
combination with either
.B appl
or
.BR opsys .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B opsys
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The message originated in the kernel. This keyword should not be used in
combination with either
.B appl
or
.BR util .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B recov
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The application will recover from the condition. This keyword should not be
used in combination with
.BR nrecov .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nrecov
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The application will not recover from the condition. This keyword should
not be used in combination with
.BR recov .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B print
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Print the message to the standard error stream
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B console
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Write the message to the system console.
.BR print ,
.BR console ,
or
both may be used.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I label
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Identifies the source of the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I severity
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Indicates the seriousness of the error. The keywords and definitions of the
standard levels of
.I severity
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B halt
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The application has encountered a severe fault and is halting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B error
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The application has detected a fault.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B warn
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The application has detected a condition that is out of the ordinary and
might be a problem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B info
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The application is providing information about a condition that is not in
error.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I tag
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The string containing an identifier for the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I action
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A text string describing the first step in the error recovery process. This
string must be written so that the entire
.I action
argument is
interpreted as a single argument.
.B fmtmsg
precedes each action string
with the
.B "TO FIX:"
prefix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I text
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A text string describing the condition. Must be written so that the entire
.I text
argument is interpreted as a single argument.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Standard message format
.sp
.LP
The following example of
.B fmtmsg
produces a complete message in the
standard message format and displays it to the standard error stream.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmtmsg -c soft -u recov,print,appl -l UX:cat \e
     -s error -t UX:cat:001 -a "refer to manual" "invalid syntax"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
produces:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
UX:cat: ERROR: invalid syntax
TO FIX: refer to manual   UX:cat:138
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Using MSGVERB
.sp
.LP
When the environment variable
.B MSGVERB
is set as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBMSGVERB=severity:text:action\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and Example 1 is used,
.B fmtmsg
produces:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: invalid syntax
TO FIX: refer to manual
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Using SEV_LEVEL
.sp
.LP
When the environment variable
.B SEV_LEVEL
is set as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSEV_LEVEL=note,5,NOTE\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
the following
.B fmtmsg
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmtmsg -c soft -u print -l UX:cat -s note \e
     -a "refer to manual" "invalid syntax"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
produces:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
NOTE: invalid syntax
TO FIX: refer to manual
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and displays the message on
.BR stderr .

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The environment variables
.B MSGVERB
and
.B SEV_LEVEL
control the
behavior of
.BR fmtmsg .
.B MSGVERB
is set by the administrator in the
.B /etc/profile
for the system. Users can override the value of
.B MSGVERB
set by the system by resetting
.B MSGVERB
in their own
\fB\&.profile\fR files or by changing the value in their current shell
session.
.B SEV_LEVEL
can be used in shell scripts.
.sp
.LP
.B MSGVERB
tells
.B fmtmsg
which message components to select when
writing messages to
.BR stderr .
The value of
.B MSGVERB
is a
colon-separated list of optional keywords.
.B MSGVERB
can be set as
follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBMSGVERB=[\fIkeyword\fR[:\fIkeyword\fR[:.\|.\|.]]]
export MSGVERB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Valid
.IR keyword "s are:"
.BR label ,
.BR severity ,
.BR text ,
.BR action ,
and
.BR tag .
If
.B MSGVERB
contains a keyword for a
component and the component's value is not the component's null value,
.B fmtmsg
includes that component in the message when writing the message
to
.BR stderr .
If
.B MSGVERB
does not include a keyword for a message
component, that component is not included in the display of the message. The
keywords may appear in any order. If
.B MSGVERB
is not defined, if its
value is the null string, if its value is not of the correct format, or if
it contains keywords other than the valid ones listed above, \fBfmtmsg\fR
selects all components.
.sp
.LP
.B MSGVERB
affects only which message components are selected for
display. All message components are included in console messages.
.sp
.LP
.B SEV_LEVEL
defines severity levels and associates print strings with
them for use by
.BR fmtmsg .
The standard severity levels shown below
cannot be modified. Additional severity levels can be defined, redefined,
and removed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
(no severity is used)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B HALT
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B ERROR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B WARNING
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B INFO
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B SEV_LEVEL
is set as follows:
.sp
.LP
.I description
is a comma-separated list containing three fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSEV_LEVEL=   [\fIdescription\fR[:\fIdescription\fR[:.\|.\|.]]]
export SEV_LEVEL\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIdescription\fR=\fIseverity_keyword\fR, \fIlevel\fR, \fIprintstring\fR
.sp
.LP
.I severity_keyword
is a character string used as the keyword with the
.B -s
.I severity
option to
.BR fmtmsg .
.sp
.LP
.I level
is a character string that evaluates to a positive integer
(other than
.BR 0 ,
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.BR 3 ,
or
.BR 4 ,
which are
reserved for the standard severity levels). If the keyword
.I severity_keyword
is used,
.I level
is the severity value passed on
to
.BR fmtmsg (3C).
.sp
.LP
.I printstring
is the character string used by
.B fmtmsg
in the
standard message format whenever the severity value
.I level
is used.
.sp
.LP
If
.B SEV_LEVEL
is not defined, or if its value is null, no severity
levels other than the defaults are available. If a
.I description
in the
colon separated list is not a comma separated list containing three fields,
or if the second field of a comma separated list does not evaluate to a
positive integer, that
.I description
in the colon separated list is
ignored.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
All the requested functions were executed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The command contains a syntax error, an invalid option, or an invalid
argument to an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The function executed with partial success, however the message was not
displayed on
.BR stderr .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The function executed with partial success; however, the message was not
displayed on the system console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
No requested functions were executed successfully.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addseverity (3C),
.BR fmtmsg (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
