'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fold 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fold \- filter for folding lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfold\fR [\fB-bs\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fR | \fB-width\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fold
utility is a filter that will fold lines from its input
files, breaking the lines to have a maximum of
.I width
column positions
(or bytes, if the
.B -b
option is specified). Lines will be broken by the
insertion of a NEWLINE character such that each output line (referred to
later in this section as a segment) is the maximum width possible that does
not exceed the specified number of column positions (or bytes). A line will
not be broken in the middle of a character. The behavior is undefined if
.I width
is less than the number of columns any single character in the
input would occupy.
.sp
.LP
If the CARRIAGE-RETURN, BACKSPACE, or TAB characters are encountered in the
input, and the
.B -b
option is not specified, they will be treated
specially:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BACKSPACE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The current count of line width will be decremented by one, although the
count never will become negative.
.B fold
will not insert a NEWLINE
character immediately before or after any BACKSPACE character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CARRIAGE-RETURN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The current count of line width will be set to
.BR 0 .
.B fold
will not
insert a NEWLINE character immediately before or after any CARRIAGE-RETURN
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TAB
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Each TAB character encountered will advance the column position pointer to
the next tab stop. Tab stops will be at each column position
.I n
such
that
.I n
modulo 8 equals 1.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Counts
.I width
in bytes rather than column positions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
If a segment of a line contains a blank character within the first
.I width
column positions (or bytes), breaks the line after the last such
blank character meeting the width constraints. If there is no blank
character meeting the requirements, the
.B -s
option will have no effect
for that output segment of the input line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fB|-\fIwidth\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies the maximum line length, in column positions (or bytes if
.B -b
is specified). If
.I width
is not a positive decimal number, an
error is returned. The default value is 80.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A path name of a text file to be folded. If no
.I file
operands are
specified, the standard input will be used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Submitting a file of possibly long lines to the line
printer
.sp
.LP
An example invocation that submits a file of possibly long lines to the
line printer (under the assumption that the user knows the line width of the
printer to be assigned by
.BR lp (1)):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfold -w 132 bigfile | lp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR fold :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
All input files were processed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIenabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cut (1),
.BR pr (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B fold
and
.BR cut (1)
can be used to create text files out of files
with arbitrary line lengths.
.B fold
should be used when the contents of
long lines need to be kept contiguous.
.B cut
should be used when the
number of lines (or records) needs to remain constant.
.sp
.LP
.B fold
is frequently used to send text files to line printers that
truncate, rather than fold, lines wider than the printer is able to print
(usually 80 or 132 column positions).
.sp
.LP
.B fold
may not work correctly if underlining is present.
