'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ftp 1 "6 Jun 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ftp \- file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBftp\fR [\fB-adfginpstvx\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIGSS Mech\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItimeout\fR]
     [\fIhostname\fR [\fIport\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftp
command is the user interface to the
.B Internet
standard
File Transfer Protocol
.RB ( FTP ).
.B ftp
transfers files to and from a
remote network site.
.sp
.LP
The host and optional port with which
.B ftp
is to communicate can be
specified on the command line. If this is done,
.B ftp
immediately
attempts to establish a connection to an
.B FTP
server on that host.
Otherwise,
.B ftp
enters its command interpreter and awaits instructions
from the user. When
.B ftp
is awaiting commands from the user, it
displays the prompt
.BR ftp> .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options can be specified at the command line, or to the
command interpreter:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Uses
.B GSSAPI
authentication
.BR only .
If the authentication fails,
this option closes the connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enables debugging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Forwards local security credentials to the remote server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Disables filename "globbing".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Turns off interactive prompting during multiple file transfers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies the \fBGSS\fR-\fBAPI\fR mechanism to use. The default is to use
the kerberos_v5 mechanism. Supported alternatives are defined in
.B /etc/gss/mech
(see
.BR mech (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Does not attempt "auto-login" upon initial connection. If auto-login is not
disabled, \fBftp\fR checks the \fB\&.netrc\fR file in the user's home
directory for an entry describing an account on the remote machine. If no
entry exists,
.B ftp
prompts for the login name of the account on the
remote machine (the default is the login name on the local machine), and, if
necessary, prompts for a password and an account with which to login.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enables passive mode for data transfers. This command is useful when
connecting to a remote host from behind a connection filtering firewall.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Skips the
.B SYST
command that is sent by default to all remote servers
upon connection. The system command is what enables the automatic use of
binary mode rather than the protocol default ascii mode.
.sp
As some older servers cannot handle the
.B ftp
command, this directive
is provided to allow inter-operability with these servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enables packet tracing (unimplemented).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.I timeout
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enables global connection timer, specified in seconds (decimal). There is a
timer for the control connection that is reset when anything is sent to the
server and disabled while the client is prompting for user input. Another
independent timer is used to monitor incoming or outgoing data
connections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Shows all responses from the remote server, as well as report on data
transfer statistics. This is turned on by default if
.B ftp
is running
interactively with its input coming from the user's terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Attempts to use
.B GSSAPI
for authentication and encryption. Data and
Command channel protection is set to "\fBprivate\fR".
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following commands can be specified to the command interpreter:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
[ \fIcommand\fR ] Runs \fIcommand\fR as a shell command on the local
machine. If no
.I command
is given, invokes an interactive shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $
.I macro-name
[ \fIargs\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Executes the macro
.I macro-name
that was defined with the \fBmacdef\fR
command. Arguments are passed to the macro unglobbed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B account
[ \fIpasswd\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Supplies a supplemental password required by a remote system for access to
resources once a login has been successfully completed. If no argument is
included, the user is prompted for an account password in a non-echoing
input mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B append
.I local-file
[ \fIremote-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Appends a local file to a file on the remote machine. If \fIremote-file\fR
is not specified, the local file name is used, subject to alteration by any
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
settings. File transfer uses the current settings
for "representation type", "file structure", and "transfer mode".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ascii
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the "representation type" to "network \fBASCII\fR". This is the
default type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bell
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sounds a bell after each file transfer command is completed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B binary
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the "representation type" to "image".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bye
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Terminates the
.B FTP
session with the remote server and exit
.BR ftp .
An
.B EOF
also terminates the session and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B case
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles remote computer file name case mapping during
.B mget
commands.
When
.B case
is on (default is off), remote computer file names with all
letters in upper case are written in the local directory with the letters
mapped to lower case.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cd
.I remote-directory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the working directory on the remote machine to
.IR remote-directory .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cdup
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the remote machine working directory to the parent of the current
remote machine working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clear
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the protection level on data transfers to "\fBclear\fR". If no
.B ADAT
command succeeded, then this is the default protection level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B close
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Terminates the
.B FTP
session with the remote server, and return to the
command interpreter. Any defined macros are erased.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles RETURN stripping during "network \fBASCII\fR" type file retrieval.
Records are denoted by a RETURN/\fBLINEFEED\fR sequence during "network
\fBASCII\fR" type file transfer. When \fBcr\fR is on (the default), RETURN
characters are stripped from this sequence to conform with the UNIX system
single
.B LINEFEED
record delimiter. Records on non-UNIX-system remote
hosts can contain single \fBLINEFEED\fR characters; when an "network
\fBASCII\fR" type transfer is made, these \fBLINEFEED\fR characters can be
distinguished from a record delimiter only when
.B cr
is off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete
.I remote-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the file
.I remote-file
on the remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles debugging mode. When debugging is on,
.B ftp
prints each command
sent to the remote machine, preceded by the string \fB->\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dir
[ \fIremote-directory\fR [ \fIlocal-file\fR ]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints a listing of the directory contents in the directory,
.IR remote-directory ,
and, optionally, placing the output in
.IR local-file .
If no directory is specified, the current working
directory on the remote machine is used. If no local file is specified, or
.I local-file
is \fB\(mi\fR, output is sent to the terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disconnect
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A synonym for
.BR close .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B form
[ \fIformat-name\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the carriage control format subtype of the "representation type" to
.IR format-name .
The only valid
.I format-name
is
.BR non-print ,
which corresponds to the default "non-print" subtype.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B get
.I remote-file
[ \fIlocal-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieves the
.I remote-file
and store it on the local machine. If the
local file name is not specified, it is given the same name it has on the
remote machine, subject to alteration by the current
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
and
.B nmap
settings. The current settings for
"representation type", "file structure", and "transfer mode" are used while
transferring the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B glob
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles filename expansion, or "globbing", for \fBmdelete\fR, \fBmget\fR
and
.BR mput .
If globbing is turned off, filenames are taken literally.
.sp
Globbing for
.B mput
is done as in
.BR sh (1).
For
.B mdelete
and
.BR mget ,
each remote file name is expanded separately on the remote
machine, and the lists are not merged.
.sp
Expansion of a directory name is likely to be radically different from
expansion of the name of an ordinary file: the exact result depends on the
remote operating system and
.B FTP
server, and can be previewed with the
command,
.B mls
.I remote-files
\(mi.
.sp
.B mget
and
.B mput
are not meant to transfer entire directory
subtrees of files. You can do this by transferring a
.BR tar (1)
archive of
the subtree (using a "representation type" of "image" as set by the
.B binary
command).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hash
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles hash-sign (\fB#\fR) printing for each data block transferred. The
size of a data block is 8192 bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B help
[ \fIcommand\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints an informative message about the meaning of
.IR command .
If no
argument is given,
.B ftp
prints a list of the known commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lcd
[ \fIdirectory\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the working directory on the local machine. If no \fIdirectory\fR
is specified, the user's home directory is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ls
[ \fB-al\fR | \fIremote-directory\fR [ \fIlocal-file\fR ]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, prints an abbreviated listing of the contents of a directory on
the remote machine. This default behavior can be changed to make
.B ls
a
synonym of the
.B dir
command. This change can be achieved by setting
.B FTP_LS_SENDS_NLST
to '\fBno\fR' in \fB/etc/default/ftp\fR or in the
environment. See
.BR ftp (4)
for details.
.sp
The
.B -a
option lists all entries, including those that begin with a
dot (\fB\&.\fR), which are normally not listed. The
.B -l
option lists
files in long format, giving mode, number of links, owner, group, size in
bytes, and time of last modification for each file. If the file is a special
file, the size field instead contains the major and minor device numbers
rather than a size. If the file is a symbolic link, the filename is printed
followed by "\fB\(->\fR" and the pathname of the referenced file.
.sp
If
.I remote-directory
is left unspecified, the current working
directory is used.
.sp
If no local file is specified, or if \fIlocal-file\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, the
output is sent to the terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B macdef
.I macro-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines a macro. Subsequent lines are stored as the macro
.IR macro-name .
A null line (consecutive
.B NEWLINE
characters in a file or RETURN
characters from the terminal) terminates macro input mode. There is a limit
of 16 macros and 4096 total characters in all defined macros. Macros remain
defined until a
.B close
command is executed.
.sp
The macro processor interprets
.B $
and \fB\e\fR as special characters.
A
.B $
followed by a number (or numbers) is replaced by the corresponding
argument on the macro invocation command line. A
.B $
followed by an
.B i
signals that macro processor that the executing macro is to be
looped. On the first pass,
.B $i
is replaced by the first argument on the
macro invocation command line; on the second pass, it is replaced by the
second argument, and so on. A \fB\e\fR followed by any character is replaced
by that character. Use the \fB\e\fR to prevent special treatment of the
.BR $ .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mdelete
.I remote-files
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the
.I remote-files
on the remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mdir
.I remote-files local-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Like
.BR dir ,
except multiple remote files can be specified. If
interactive prompting is on,
.B ftp
prompts the user to verify that the
last argument is indeed the target local file for receiving
.BR mdir
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mget
.I remote-files
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expands the \fIremote-files\fR on the remote machine and do a \fBget\fR for
each file name thus produced. See
.B glob
for details on the filename
expansion. Resulting file names are processed according to
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
and
.B nmap
settings. Files are transferred into the local
.RB "working directory, which can be changed with" " lcd"
.IR directory .
New
local directories can be created with
.B "! mkdir"
.IR directory .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mkdir
.I directory-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Makes a directory on the remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mls
.I remote-files local-file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Like
.BR ls (1),
except multiple remote files can be specified. If
interactive prompting is on,
.B ftp
prompts the user to verify that the
last argument is indeed the target local file for receiving
.BR mls
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mode
[ \fImode-name\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the "transfer mode" to \fImode-name\fR. The only valid \fImode-name\fR
is \fBstream\fR, which corresponds to the default "stream" mode. This
implementation only supports
.BR stream ,
and requires that it be
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mput
.I local-files
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expands wild cards in the list of local files given as arguments and do a
.B put
for each file in the resulting list. See
.B glob
for details of
filename expansion. Resulting file names are processed according to
.B ntrans
and
.B nmap
settings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nlist
[ \fB-al\fR | \fIremote-directory\fR [ \fIlocal-file\fR
]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints an abbreviated listing of the contents of a directory on the remote
machine, listing only those files that can be retrieved by the \fBget\fR
command, unless the
.B -a
or
.B -l
option is used. If
.I remote-directory
is left unspecified, the current working directory is
used.
.sp
The
.B -a
option lists all entries, including those that begin with a
dot (\fB\&.\fR), which are normally not listed. The
.B -l
option lists
files in long format the same way it does when used with the
.BR ls
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nmap
[ \fIinpattern outpattern\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets or unsets the filename mapping mechanism. If no arguments are
specified, the filename mapping mechanism is unset. If arguments are
specified, remote filenames are mapped during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without a specified remote target filename. If
arguments are specified, local filenames are mapped during \fBmget\fR
commands and
.B get
commands issued without a specified local target
filename.
.sp
This command is useful when connecting to a non-UNIX-system remote host
with different file naming conventions or practices. The mapping follows the
pattern set by
.I inpattern
and
.IR outpattern .
.I inpattern
is a
template for incoming filenames (which can have already been processed
according to the
.B ntrans
and
.B case
settings). Variable templating
is accomplished by including the sequences
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ,
\&.\|.\|.\|,
.B $9
in
.IR inpattern .
Use \fB\e\fR to prevent this special treatment
of the
.B $
character. All other characters are treated literally, and
are used to determine the
.B nmap
.I inpattern
variable values.
.sp
For example, given
.I inpattern
.B $1.$2
and the remote file name
.BR mydata.data ,
.B $1
would have the value
.BR mydata ,
and
.BR $2
would have the value
.BR data .
.sp
The
.I outpattern
determines the resulting mapped filename. The
sequences
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ,
\&.\|.\|.\|, \fB$9\fR are replaced by any value
resulting from the
.I inpattern
template. The sequence
.B $0
is
replaced by the original filename. Additionally, the sequence
[\fI\|seq1\|\fR,\fI\|seq2\|\fR] is replaced by \fIseq1\fR if \fIseq1\fR is
not a null string; otherwise it is replaced by
.IR seq2 .
.sp
For example, the command
.B "nmap $1.$2.$3 [$1,$2].[$2,file]"
would yield
the output filename \fBmyfile.data\fR for input filenames \fBmyfile.data\fR
and
.BR myfile.data.old ,
.B myfile.file
for the input filename
.BR myfile ,
and
.B myfile.myfile
for the input filename
\fB\&.myfile\fR. \fBSPACE\fR characters can be included in
.IR outpattern ,
as in the example \fBnmap $1 | sed "s/ *$//" > $1\fR. Use the \fB\e\fR
character to prevent special treatment of the
.BR $ ,
.BR [ ,
.BR ] ,
and
.BR , ,
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ntrans
[ \fIinchars\fR [ \fIoutchars\fR ] ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets or unsets the filename character translation mechanism. If no
arguments are specified, the filename character translation mechanism is
unset. If arguments are specified, characters in remote filenames are
translated during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without
a specified remote target filename, and characters in local filenames are
translated during
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands issued without
a specified local target filename.
.sp
This command is useful when connecting to a non-UNIX-system remote host
with different file naming conventions or practices. Characters in a
filename matching a character in
.I inchars
are replaced with the
corresponding character in
.IR outchars .
If the character's position in
.I inchars
is longer than the length of
.IR outchars ,
the character is
deleted from the file name.
.sp
Only 16 characters can be translated when using the
.B ntrans
command
under
.BR ftp .
Use
.B case
(described above) if needing to convert the
entire alphabet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B open
.I host
[ \fIport\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Establishes a connection to the specified
.I host
.B FTP
server. An
optional port number can be supplied, in which case,
.B ftp
attempts to
contact an
.B FTP
server at that port. If the
.I auto-login
option is
on (default setting),
.B ftp
also attempts to automatically log the user
in to the
.B FTP
server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B passive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles passive mode. When passive mode is turned on, the ftp client sends
the
.B PASV
command requesting that the
.B FTP
server open a port for
the data connection and return the address of that port. The remote server
listens on that port and the client connects to it. When passive mode is
turned off, the ftp client sends the
.B PORT
command to the server
specifying an address for the remote server to connect back to. Passive mode
is useful when the connections to the ftp client are controlled, for
example, when behind a firewall. When connecting to an IPv6-enabled
.B FTP
server,
.B EPSV
can be used in place of
.B PASV
and
.B EPRT
in place of
.BR PORT .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B private
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the protection level on data transfers to "\fBprivate\fR". Data
transmissions are confidentiality\(em and integrity\(emprotected by
encryption. If no
.B ADAT
command succeeded, then the only possible level
is "clear".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B prompt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles interactive prompting. Interactive prompting occurs during multiple
file transfers to allow the user to selectively retrieve or store files. By
default, prompting is turned on. If prompting is turned off, any \fBmget\fR
or
.B mput
transfers all files, and any
.B mdelete
deletes all
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B protect
.I protection-level
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the protection level on data transfers to
.IR protection-level .
The
valid protection levels are "\fBclear\fR" for unprotected data
transmissions, "\fBsafe\fR" for data transmissions that are
integrity-protected by cryptographic checksum, and "\fBprivate\fR" for data
transmissions that are confidentiality\(em and integrity\(em protected by
encryption. If no
.B ADAT
command succeeded, then the only possible level
is "\fBclear\fR". If no level is specified, the current level is printed.
The default protection level is "\fBclear\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B proxy
.I ftp-command
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Executes an
.B FTP
command on a secondary control connection. This
command allows simultaneous connection to two remote
.B FTP
servers for
transferring files between the two servers. The first
.B proxy
command
should be an
.BR open ,
to establish the secondary control connection.
Enter the command
.B "proxy ?"
to see other
.B FTP
commands
executable on the secondary connection.
.sp
The following commands behave differently when prefaced by
.BR proxy :
.B open
does not define new macros during the auto-login process,
.B close
does not erase existing macro definitions,
.B get
and
.B mget
transfer files from the host on the primary control connection to
the host on the secondary control connection, and
.BR put ,
.BR mputd ,
and
.B append
transfer files from the host on the secondary control
connection to the host on the primary control connection.
.sp
Third party file transfers depend upon support of the
.B PASV
command by
the server on the secondary control connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B put
.I local-file
[ \fIremote-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stores a local file on the remote machine. If
.I remote-file
is left
unspecified, the local file name is used after processing according to any
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
settings in naming the remote file. File transfer
uses the current settings for "representation type", "file structure", and
"transfer mode".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pwd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the name of the current working directory on the remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A synonym for
.BR bye .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quote
.I "arg1 arg2"
\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sends the arguments specified, verbatim, to the remote
.B FTP
server. A
single
.B FTP
.RB "reply code is expected in return. (The" " remotehelp"
command displays a list of valid arguments.)
.sp
.B quote
should be used only by experienced users who are familiar with
the FTP protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B recv
.I remote-file
[ \fIlocal-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 A synonym for
.BR get .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B reget
.I remote-file
[ \fIlocal-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B reget
command acts like
.BR get ,
except that if
.I local-file
exists and is smaller than \fIremote-file\fR,
.I local-file
is presumed to be a partially transferred copy of
.I remote-file
and the transfer is continued from the apparent point of
failure. This command is useful when transferring large files over networks
that are prone to dropping connections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B remotehelp
[ \fIcommand-name\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests help from the remote
.B FTP
server. If a
.I command-name
is
specified it is supplied to the server as well.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rename
.I from to
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Renames the file
.I from
on the remote machine to have the name
.IR to .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B reset
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Clears reply queue. This command re-synchronizes command/reply sequencing
with the remote
.B FTP
server. Resynchronization can be necessary
following a violation of the
.B FTP
protocol by the remote server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B restart
[ \fImarker\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restarts the immediately following
.B get
or
.B put
at the indicated
marker. On UNIX systems,
.I marker
is usually a byte offset into the
file. When followed by an
.BR mget ,
the
.B restart
applies to the first
.B get
performed. Specifying a
.I marker
of
.B 0
clears the restart
marker. If no argument is specified, the current restart status is
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rmdir
.I directory-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes a directory on the remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B runique
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles storing of files on the local system with unique filenames. If a
file already exists with a name equal to the target local filename for a
.B get
or
.B mget
command, a \fB\&.1\fR is appended to the name. If
the resulting name matches another existing file, a \fB\&.2\fR is appended
to the original name. If this process continues up to \fB\&.99\fR, an error
message is printed, and the transfer does not take place. The generated
unique filename is reported.
.B runique
does not affect local files
generated from a shell command. The default value is off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B safe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the protection level on data transfers to "\fBsafe\fR". Data
transmissions are integrity-protected by cryptographic checksum. If no
.B ADAT
command succeeded, then the only possible level is
"\fBclear\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B send
.I local-file
[ \fIremote-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A synonym for
.BR put .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sendport
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles the use of
.B PORT
commands. By default,
.B ftp
attempts to
use a
.B PORT
command when establishing a connection for each data
transfer. The use of
.B PORT
commands can prevent delays when performing
multiple file transfers. If the
.B PORT
command fails,
.B ftp
uses the
default data port. When the use of
.B PORT
commands is disabled, no
attempt is made to use
.B PORT
commands for each data transfer. This is
useful when connected to certain
.B FTP
implementations that ignore
.B PORT
commands but incorrectly indicate they have been accepted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B site
.I arg1
[ \fIarg2\fR ] .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sends the arguments specified, verbatim, to the remote
.B FTP
server as
a
.B SITE
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current status of
.BR ftp .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B struct
[ \fIstruct-name\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the file structure to
.IR struct-name .
The only valid
\fIstruct-name\fR is \fBfile\fR, which corresponds to the default "file"
structure. The implementation only supports
.BR file ,
and requires that it
be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sunique
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles storing of files on remote machine under unique file names. The
remote
.B FTP
server must support the
.B STOU
command for successful
completion. The remote server reports the unique name. Default value is
off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tcpwindow
[ \fIsize\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the
.B TCP
window size to be used for data connections. Specifying
a size of
.B 0
stops the explicit setting of the
.B TCP
window size on
data connections. If no argument is specified, the current setting is
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tenex
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the "representation type" to that needed to talk to \fBTENEX\fR
machines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B trace
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles packet tracing (unimplemented).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B type
[ \fItype-name\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the "representation type" to \fItype-name\fR. The valid
\fItype-name\fRs are \fBascii\fR for "network \fBASCII\fR", \fBbinary\fR or
\fBimage\fR for "image", and \fBtenex\fR for "local byte size" with a byte
size of 8 (used to talk to
.B TENEX
machines). If no type is specified,
the current type is printed. The default type is "network \fBASCII\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B user
.I user-name
[ \fIpassword\fR [ \fIaccount\fR ]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identify yourself to the remote
.B FTP
server. If the password is not
specified and the server requires it,
.B ftp
prompts the user for it
(after disabling local echo). If an account field is not specified, and the
.B FTP
server requires it, the user is prompted for it. If an account
field is specified, an account command is relayed to the remote server after
the login sequence is completed if the remote server did not require it for
logging in. Unless \fBftp\fR is invoked with "auto-login" disabled, this
process is done automatically on initial connection to the
.BR FTP
server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles verbose mode. In verbose mode, all responses from the \fBFTP\fR
server are displayed to the user. In addition, if verbose mode is on, when a
file transfer completes, statistics regarding the efficiency of the transfer
are reported. By default, verbose mode is on if \fBftp\fR's commands are
coming from a terminal, and off otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
[ \fIcommand\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A synonym for
.BR help .
.RE

.sp
.LP
Command arguments which have embedded spaces can be quoted with quote
(\fB"\fR) marks.
.sp
.LP
If any command argument which is not indicated as being optional is not
specified,
.B ftp
prompts for that argument.
.SH ABORTING A FILE TRANSFER
.sp
.LP
To abort a file transfer, use the terminal interrupt key. Sending transfers
is immediately halted. Receiving transfers are halted by sending an
.B FTP
protocol
.B ABOR
command to the remote server, and discarding
any further data received. The speed at which this is accomplished depends
upon the remote server's support for
.B ABOR
processing. If the remote
server does not support the
.B ABOR
command, an
.B ftp>
prompt does
not appear until the remote server has completed sending the requested
file.
.sp
.LP
The terminal interrupt key sequence is ignored when
.B ftp
has completed
any local processing and is awaiting a reply from the remote server. A long
delay in this mode can result from the
.B ABOR
processing described
above, or from unexpected behavior by the remote server, including
violations of the ftp protocol. If the delay results from unexpected remote
server behavior, the local
.B ftp
program must be killed by hand.
.SH FILE NAMING CONVENTIONS
.sp
.LP
Local files specified as arguments to
.B ftp
commands are processed
according to the following rules.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1)
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the file name \fB\(mi\fR is specified, the standard input (for reading)
or standard output (for writing) is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2)
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the first character of the file name is
.BR | ,
the remainder of the
argument is interpreted as a shell command.
.B ftp
then forks a shell,
using \fBpopen\fR(3C) with the argument supplied, and reads (writes) from
the standard output (standard input) of that shell. If the shell command
includes SPACE characters, the argument must be quoted; for example \fB"| ls
\fB-lt\fB"\fR. A particularly useful example of this mechanism is:
\fB"dir | more"\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3)
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Failing the above checks, if globbing is enabled, local file names are
expanded according to the rules used in the
.BR sh (1);
see the
.BR glob
command. If the
.B ftp
command expects a single local file (for example,
.BR put ),
only the first filename generated by the globbing operation is
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4)
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
For
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands with unspecified local file
names, the local filename is the remote filename, which can be altered by a
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
or
.B nmap
setting. The resulting filename can
then be altered if
.B runique
is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 5)
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
For
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands with unspecified remote file
names, the remote filename is the local filename, which can be altered by a
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
setting. The resulting filename can then be
altered by the remote server if
.B sunique
is on.
.RE

.SH FILE TRANSFER PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The
.B FTP
specification specifies many parameters which can affect a
file transfer.
.sp
.LP
The "representation type" can be one of "network \fBASCII\fR",
"\fBEBCDIC\fR", "image", or "local byte size" with a specified byte size
(for PDP-10's and PDP-20's mostly). The "network \fBASCII\fR" and
"\fBEBCDIC\fR" types have a further subtype which specifies whether vertical
format control (\fBNEWLINE\fR characters, form feeds, and so on) are to be
passed through ("non-print"), provided in \fBTELNET\fR format ("\fBTELNET\fR
format controls"), or provided in \fBASA\fR (\fBFORTRAN\fR) ("carriage
control (\fBASA\fR)") format. \fBftp\fR supports the "network \fBASCII\fR"
(subtype "non-print" only) and "image" types, plus "local byte size" with a
byte size of 8 for communicating with
.B TENEX
machines.
.sp
.LP
The "file structure" can be one of \fBfile\fR (no record structure),
.BR record ,
or
.BR page .
.B ftp
supports only the default value,
which is
.BR file .
.sp
.LP
The "transfer mode" can be one of \fBstream\fR, \fBblock\fR, or
.BR compressed .
.B ftp
supports only the default value, which is
.BR stream .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBftp\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftp
command is IPv6-enabled. See
.BR ip6 (7P).
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B ~/.netrc
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbip
_
CSIenabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ls (1),
.BR rcp (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR in.ftpd (1M),
.BR popen (3C),
.BR ftp (4),
.BR ftpusers (4),
.BR mech (4),
.BR netrc (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR ip6 (7P)
.sp
.LP
Allman, M., Ostermann, S., and Metz, C. \fIRFC 2428, FTP Extensions for
IPv6 and NATs\fR. The Internet Society. September 1998.
.sp
.LP
Lunt, S. J.
.IR "RFC 2228, FTP Security Extensions" .
Internet Draft.
November 1993.
.sp
.LP
Postel, Jon, and Joyce Reynolds. \fIRFC 959, File Transfer Protocol (FTP
)\fR. Network Information Center. October 1985.
.sp
.LP
Piscitello, D. \fIRFC 1639, FTP Operation Over Big Address Records
(FOOBAR)\fR. Network Working Group. June 1994.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Failure to log in can arise from an explicit denial by the remote
.BR FTP
server because the account is listed in
.BR /etc/ftpusers .
See
.BR in.ftpd (1M)
and \fBftpusers\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
Correct execution of many commands depends upon proper behavior by the
remote server.
.sp
.LP
An error in the treatment of carriage returns in the 4.2
.B BSD
code
handling transfers with a "representation type" of "network \fBASCII\fR" has
been corrected. This correction can result in incorrect transfers of binary
files to and from 4.2 \fBBSD\fR servers using a "representation type" of
"network \fBASCII\fR". Avoid this problem by using the "image" type.
