'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ftpwho 1 "25 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ftpwho \- show current process information for each FTP Server user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBftpwho\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-V\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B ftpwho
command to show the current process information for
each user logged in to the FTP Server. This information is in addition to
information displayed by the
.BR ftpcount (1)
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftpwho
command supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the current process information and user counts for FTP Server
classes defined in virtual host
.BR ftpaccess (4)
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the program copyright and version information, then terminate.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/ftpd/ftpaccess
.sp
.LP
.BI /var/run/ftp.pids- classname
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/ftpd/ftpservers
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWftpu
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ftpcount (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR in.ftpd (1M),
.BR ftpaccess (4),
.BR ftpservers (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For separate class counts to be kept, class names defined in complete
virtual host
.B ftpaccess
files must be unique.
