'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gencat 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gencat \- generate a formatted message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgencat\fR \fIcatfile\fR \fImsgfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gencat
command merges the message text source file(s)
.I msgfile
into a formatted message database
.IR catfile .
The database
.I catfile
is created if it does not already exist.  If
.I catfile
does exist, its messages are included in the new
.IR catfile .
If set and
message numbers collide, the new message-text defined in
.I msgfile
replaces the old message text currently contained in
.IR catfile .
The
message text source file (or set of files) input to
.B gencat
can contain
either set and message numbers or simply message numbers, in which case the
set
.B NL_SETD
(see
.BR nl_types.h (3HEAD))
is assumed.
.SS "Message Text Source File Format"
.sp
.LP
The format of a message text source file is defined as follows. Note that
the fields of a message text source line are separated by a single
.B ASCII
space or tab character. Any other
.B ASCII
spaces or tabs are
considered as part of the subsequent field.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $set
.I n comment
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Where
.I n
specifies the set identifier of the following messages until
the next
.BR $set ,
.BR $delset ,
or end-of-file appears.
.I n
must be
a number in the range
.RB ( 1 -{\fBNL_SETMAX\fR}).
Set identifiers within a
single source file need not be contiguous. Any string following the set
identifier is treated as a comment.  If no
.B $set
directive is specified
in a message text source file, all messages are located in the default
message set
.BR NL_SETD .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $delset
.I n comment
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Deletes message set
.I n
from an existing message catalog. Any string
following the set number is treated as a comment. (\fBNote:\fR if  \fIn\fR
is not a valid set it is ignored.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI $ comment
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A line beginning with a dollar symbol
.B $
followed by an
.BR ASCII
space or tab character is treated as a comment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I m message-text
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I m
denotes the message identifier, a number in the range
(\fB1\fR-{\fBNL_MSGMAX\fR}). The
.I message-text
is stored in the message
catalog with the set identifier specified by the last
.B $set
directive,
and with message identifier
.IR m .
If the
.I message-text
is empty, and
an
.B ASCII
space or tab field separator is present, an empty string is
stored in the message catalog.  If a message source line has a message
number, but neither a field separator nor
.IR message-text ,
the existing
message with that number (if any) is deleted from the catalog. Message
identifiers need not be contiguous.  The length of
.I message-text
must
be in the range
.RB ( 0 -{\fBNL_TEXTMAX\fR}).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $quote
.I c
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
This line specifies an optional quote character
.IR c ,
which can be used
to surround
.I message-text
so that trailing spaces or null (empty)
messages are visible in a message source line.  By default, or if an empty
.B $quote
directive is supplied, no quoting of
.I message-text
will be
recognized.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Empty lines in a message text source file are ignored.
.sp
.LP
Text strings can contain the special characters and escape sequences
defined in the following table:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
DescriptionSymbolSequence
newlineNL(LF)\en
horizontal tabHT\et
vertical tabVT\ev
backspaceBS\eb
carriage returnCR\er
form feedFF \ef
backslash\e\e\e
bit patternddd\eddd
.TE

.sp
.LP
The escape sequence \fB\e\fIddd\fR consists of backslash followed by 1,
2 or 3 octal digits, which are taken to specify the value of the desired
character. If the character following a backslash is not one of those
specified, the backslash is ignored.
.sp
.LP
Backslash followed by an
.B ASCII
newline character is also used to
continue a string on the following line. Thus, the following two lines
describe a single message string:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
1 This line continues \e
to the next line
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
which is equivalent to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    1 This line continues to the next line
.fi
.in -2

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I catfile
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A path name of the formatted message catalog. If \(mi is specified,
standard output is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I msgfile
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A path name of a message text source file. If \(mi is specified for an
instance of
.IR msgfile ,
standard input is used. The format of message
text source files is defined in
.BR "Message Text Source File Format" .
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR gencat :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWloc
_
CSIenabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mkmsgs (1),
.BR catgets (3C),
.BR catopen (3C),
.BR gettxt (3C),
.BR nl_types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
