'\" te
.\" \&.Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getfacl 1 "5 Nov 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getfacl \- display discretionary file information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgetfacl\fR [\fB-ad\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For each argument that is a regular file, special file, or named pipe, the
.B getfacl
utility displays the owner, the group, and the Access Control
List
.RB ( ACL ).
For each directory argument,
.B getfacl
displays the
owner, the group, and the
.B ACL
and/or the default
.BR ACL .
Only
directories contain default
.BR ACL s.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getfacl
utility may be executed on a file system that does not
support
.BR ACL "s. It reports the"
.B ACL
based on the base permission
bits.
.sp
.LP
With no options specified,
.B getfacl
displays the filename, the file
owner, the file group owner, and both the
.B ACL
and the default
.BR ACL ,
if it exists.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays the filename, the file owner, the file group owner, and the
.B ACL
of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays the filename, the file owner, the file group owner, and the
default
.B ACL
of the file, if it exists.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The path name of a regular file, special file, or named pipe.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The format for
.B ACL
output is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# file: filename	
# owner: uid	
# group: gid	
user::perm	
user:uid:perm	
group::perm	
group:gid:perm	
mask:perm	
other:perm	
default:user::perm	
default:user:uid:perm	
default:group::perm	
default:group:gid:perm	
default:mask:perm	
default:other:perm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When multiple files are specified on the command line, a blank line
separates the \fBACL\fRs for each file.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ACL
entries are displayed in the order in which they are
evaluated when an access check is performed. The default
.B ACL
entries
that may exist on a directory have no effect on access checks.
.sp
.LP
The first three lines display the filename, the file owner, and the file
group owner. Notice that when only the
.B -d
option is specified and the
file has no default
.BR ACL ,
only these three lines are displayed.
.sp
.LP
The
.B user
entry without a user
.B ID
indicates the permissions that
are granted to the file owner. One or more additional user entries indicate
the permissions that are granted to the specified users.
.sp
.LP
The
.B group
entry without a group
.B ID
indicates the permissions
that are granted to the file group owner. One or more additional group
entries indicate the permissions that  are granted to the specified
groups.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mask
entry indicates the
.B ACL
mask permissions. These are
the maximum permissions allowed to any user entries except the file owner,
and to any group entries, including the file group owner. These permissions
restrict the permissions specified in other entries.
.sp
.LP
The
.B other
entry indicates the permissions that are granted to
others.
.sp
.LP
The
.B default
entries may exist only for directories. These entries
indicate the default entries that are added to a file created within the
directory.
.sp
.LP
The
.B uid
is a login name or a user
.B ID
if there is no entry for
the
.B uid
in the system password file,
.BR /etc/passwd .
The
.BR gid
is a group name or a group
.B ID
if there is no entry for the
.BR gid
in the system group file,
.BR /etc/group .
The
.B perm
is a three
character string composed of the letters representing the separate
discretionary access rights:
.B r
(read),
.B w
.RB (write), " x"
(execute/search), or the place holder character \fB\(mi\fR\&. The \fBperm\fR
is displayed in the following order:
.BR rwx .
If a permission is not
granted by an
.B ACL
entry, the place holder character appears.
.sp
.LP
If  you use the
.BR chmod (1)
command to change the file group owner
permissions on a file with
.B ACL
entries, both the file group owner
permissions and the
.B ACL
mask are changed to the new permissions. Be
aware that the new
.B ACL
mask permissions may change the effective
permissions for additional users and groups who have
.B ACL
entries on
the file.
.sp
.LP
In order to indicate that the
.B ACL
mask restricts an
.B ACL
entry,
.B getfacl
displays an additional tab character, pound sign
.RB ( # ),
and the actual permissions granted, following the entry.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying file information
.sp
.LP
Given file
.BR foo ,
with an
.B ACL
six entries long, the command

.sp
.in +2
.nf
host% \fBgetfacl foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would print:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# file: foo
# owner: shea
# group: staff
user::rwx
user:spy:\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
user:mookie:r\|\(mi\|\(mi
group::r\|\(mi\|\(mi
mask::rw\|\(mi
other::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying information after chmod command
.sp
.LP
Continue with the above example, after
.B "chmod 700 foo"
was
issued:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
host% \fBgetfacl foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would print:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# file: foo
# owner: shea
# group: staff
user::rwx
user:spy:\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
user:mookie:r\|\(mi\|\(mi     #effective:\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
group::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
mask::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
other::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Displaying information when ACL contains default entries
.sp
.LP
Given directory
.BR doo ,
with an
.B ACL
containing default entries,
the command

.sp
.in +2
.nf
host% \fBgetfacl -d doo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would print:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# file: doo
# owner: shea
# group: staff
default:user::rwx
default:user:spy:\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
default:user:mookie:r\|\(mi\|\(mi
default:group::r\|\(mi\|\(mi
default:mask::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
default:other::\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
system password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
group file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR setfacl (1),
.BR acl (2),
.BR aclsort (3SEC),
.BR group (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The output from
.B getfacl
is in the correct format for input to the
.B setfacl -f
command. If the output from
.B getfacl
is
redirected to a file, the file may be used as input to
.BR setfacl .
In
this way, a user may easily assign one file's
.B ACL
to another file.
