'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getlabel 1 "11 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getlabel \- display the label of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/getlabel\fR  [\fB-sS\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B getlabel
displays the label that is associated with each
.IR filename .
When options are not specified, the output format of the
label is displayed in default format.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the label that is associated with
.I filename
in short form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the label that is associated with
.I filename
in long form.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
.B getlabel
exits with one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Unsuccessful completion due to usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Unable to translate label.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtsu
_
Interface Stability See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command line is Committed. The output is Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR setlabel (1),
.BR m_label (3TSOL),
.BR label_encodings (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
