'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  All Rights Reserved  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gettxt 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gettxt \- retrieve a text string from a message database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgettxt\fR \fImsgfile\fR : \fImsgnum\fR [\fIdflt_msg\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgettxt\fR retrieves a text string from a message file in the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fB/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB
\&\fR. The directory name \fIlocale\fR corresponds to the language in which
the text strings are written; see \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImsgfile\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Name of the file in the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fB/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB
\fRto retrieve \fImsgnum\fR from. The name of \fImsgfile\fR can be up to
14 characters in length, but may not contain either \e0 (null) or the
\fBASCII\fR code for \fB/\fR (slash) or \fB:\fR (colon).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I msgnum
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sequence number of the string to retrieve from
.IR msgfile .
The strings
in \fImsgfile\fR are numbered sequentially from
.I 1
to
.IR n ,
where
\fIn\fR is the number of strings in the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIdflt_msg\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Default string to be displayed if
.B gettxt
fails to retrieve
\fImsgnum\fR from
.IR msgfile .
Nongraphic characters must be represented
as alphabetic escape sequences.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The text string to be retrieved is in the file
.IR msgfile ,
created by
the
.BR mkmsgs (1)
utility and installed under the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fB/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB
\&\fR. You control which directory is searched by setting the environment
variable
.BR LC_MESSAGES .
If
.B LC_MESSAGES
is not set, the environment
variable
.B LANG
will be used. If
.B LANG
is not set, the files
containing the strings are under the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR.
.sp
.LP
If
.B gettxt
fails to retrieve a message in the requested language, it
will try to retrieve the same message from
\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB/ \fImsgfile\fR. If this also
fails, and if \fIdflt_msg\fR is present and non-null, then it will display
the value of
.IR dflt_msg ;
if \fIdflt_msg\fR is not present or is null,
then it will display the string
.BR "Message not found!!" .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR The environment variables \fBLANG\fR and
.BR LC_MESSAGES .
.sp
.LP
If the environment variables
.B LANG
or
.B LC_MESSAGES
have not been
set to other than their default values, the following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% gettxt UX:10 "hello world\en"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will try to retrieve the 10th message from
\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/UX/\fImsgfile\fR. If the retrieval fails, the
message "hello world," followed by a newline, will be displayed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR gettxt :
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR and
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB\&.\fR 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_CTYPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Determines how
.B gettxt
handles characters. When
.B LC_CTYPE
is set
to a valid value,
.B gettxt
can display and handle text and filenames
containing valid characters for that locale.
.B gettxt
can display and
handle Extended Unix Code (EUC) characters where any individual character
can be 1, 2, or 3 bytes wide.
.B gettxt
can also handle
.BR EUC
characters of 1, 2, or more column widths. In the "C" locale, only
characters from ISO 8859-1 are valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_MESSAGES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Determines how diagnostic and informative messages are presented. This
includes the language and style of the messages, and the correct form of
affirmative and negative responses.  In the "C" locale, the messages are
presented in the default form found in the program itself (in most cases,
U.S. English).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB/*\fR   
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default message files created by
.BR mkmsgs (1)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fB/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB/*
\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
message files for different languages created by
.BR mkmsgs (1)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWloc
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exstr (1),
.BR mkmsgs (1),
.BR srchtxt (1),
.BR gettxt (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
