'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH graph 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
graph \- draw a graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgraph\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIspacing\fR [\fIstart\fR]] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgridstyle\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIconnectmode\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
     [\fB-x\fR [l] \fIlower\fR [\fI upper\fR [\fIspacing\fR]]]
     [\fB-y\fR [l] \fIlower\fR [\fIupper\fR [\fIspacing\fR]]] [\fB-h\fR \fIfraction\fR]
     [\fB-w\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-t\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B graph
with no options takes pairs of numbers from the standard input
as abscissaes and ordinates of a graph.  Successive points are connected by
straight lines.  The standard output from
.B graph
contains plotting
instructions suitable for input to \fBplot\fR(1B) or to the command \fBlpr
.B -g
(see
.BR lpr (1B)).
.sp
.LP
If the coordinates of a point are followed by a nonnumeric string, that
string is printed as a label beginning on the point. Labels may be
surrounded with quotes \fB".\|.\|."\fR, in which case they may be empty or
contain blanks and numbers; labels never contain
.B NEWLINE
characters.
.sp
.LP
A legend indicating grid range is produced with a grid unless the
.BR -s
option is present.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Each option is recognized as a separate argument. If a specified lower
limit exceeds the upper limit, the axis is reversed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fI spacing\fB[\fI start \fB]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Supply abscissaes automatically (they are missing from the input);
.I spacing
is the spacing (default 1).
.I start
is the starting point
for automatic abscissaes (default 0 or lower limit given by
.BR -x ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Break (disconnect) the graph after each label in the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " string"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I String
is the default label for each point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -g " gridstyle"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I Gridstyle
is the grid style: 0 no grid, 1 frame with ticks, 2 full
grid (default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -l " label"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I label
is label for graph.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " connectmode"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mode (style) of connecting lines: 0 disconnected, 1 connected (default).
Some devices give distinguishable line styles for other small integers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save screen, do not erase before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x [ l ] \fIlower\fB [ \fIupper\fR \fB[\fI spacing
.BR "] ]"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B l
is present,
.I x
axis is logarithmic.
.I lower
and
.I upper
are lower (and upper)
.I x
limits.
.IR spacing ,
if
present, is grid spacing on
.I x
axis.  Normally these quantities are
determined automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-y [ l ] \fIlower\fB [ \fIupper\fR \fB[\fI spacing
.BR "] ]"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B l
is present,
.I y
axis is logarithmic.
.I lower
and
.I upper
are lower (and upper)
.I y
limits.
.IR spacing ,
if
present, is grid spacing on
.I y
axis.  Normally these quantities are
determined automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fI fraction\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I fraction
of space for height.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fI fraction\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I fraction
of space for width.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fI fraction\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I fraction
of space to move right before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fI fraction\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I fraction
of space to move up before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transpose horizontal and vertical axes. Option
.B -x
now applies to the
vertical axis.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lpr (1B),
.BR plot (1B),
.BR spline (1),
.BR plot (3PLOT),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B graph
stores all points internally and drops those for which there is
no room.
.sp
.LP
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.sp
.LP
Logarithmic axes may not be reversed.
