'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH groups 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
groups \- print group membership of user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgroups\fR [\fIuser\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The command
.B groups
prints on standard output the groups to which you
or the optionally specified user belong. Each user belongs to a group
specified in
.B /etc/passwd
and possibly to other groups as specified in
.BR /etc/group .
Note that
.B /etc/passwd
specifies the numerical
\fBID\fR (\fBgid\fR) of the group. The \fBgroups\fR command converts
\fBgid\fR to the group name in the output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The output takes the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% groups tester01 tester02
tester01 : staff
tester02 : staff
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR group (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
