'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hash 1 "17 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hash, rehash, unhash, hashstat \- evaluate the internal hash table of the
contents of directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/hash\fR [\fIutility\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/hash\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBrehash\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunhash\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhashstat\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/hash"
.sp
.LP
The
.B /usr/bin/hash
utility affects the way the current shell environment
remembers the locations of utilities found.  Depending on the arguments
specified, it adds utility locations to its list of remembered locations or it
purges the contents of the list. When no arguments are specified, it reports on
the contents of the list. The
.B -r
option causes the shell to forget all
remembered locations.
.sp
.LP
Utilities provided as built-ins to the shell are not reported by
.BR hash .
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
For each
.IR name ,
the location in the search path of the command specified
by
.I name
is determined and remembered by the shell. The
.B -r
option to
the
.B hash
built-in causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. If
no arguments are given,
.B hash
provides information about remembered
commands. The
.I Hits
column of output is the number of times a command has
been invoked by the shell process. The
.I Cost
column of output is a measure
of the work required to locate a command in the search path. If a command is
found in a "relative" directory in the search path, after changing to that
directory, the stored location of that command is recalculated. Commands for
which this will be done are indicated by an asterisk
.RB ( * )
adjacent to the
.I Hits
information.
.I Cost
will be incremented when the recalculation
is done.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
.B rehash
recomputes the internal hash table of the contents of directories
listed in the
.B path
environmental variable to account for new commands
added.
.sp
.LP
.B unhash
disables the internal hash table.
.sp
.LP
.B hashstat
prints a statistics line indicating how effective the internal
hash table has been at locating commands (and avoiding
.BR exec s).
An
.B exec
is attempted for each component of the
.I path
where the hash
function indicates a possible hit and in each component that does not begin
with a '\|/\|'.
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
For each
.IR name ,
the location in the search path of the command specified
by
.I name
is determined and remembered by the shell. The
.B -r
option to
the
.B hash
built-in causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. If
no arguments are given,
.B hash
provides information about remembered
commands.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported by
.BR hash :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I utility
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name of a utility to be searched for and added to the list of remembered
locations.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The standard output of
.B hash
is used when no arguments are specified. Its
format is unspecified, but includes the pathname of each utility in the list of
remembered locations for the current shell environment. This list consists of
those utilities named in previous
.B hash
invocations that have been
invoked, and may contain those invoked and found through the normal command
search process.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR hash :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PATH
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Determine the location of
.IR utility .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR hash :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
