'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved Portions
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH head 1 "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
head \- display first few lines of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/head"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/head\fR [\fB-number\fR | \fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] [\fIfilename\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBhead\fR [\fB-qv\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIlines\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIchars\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIskip\fR][\fIfilename\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/head"
.sp
.LP
The
.B head
utility copies the first
.I number
of lines of each
.I filename
to the standard output. If no
.I filename
is given,
.B head
copies lines from the standard input. The default value of
.I number
is
.B 10
lines.
.sp
.LP
When more than one file is specified, the start of each file looks like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB==>\fR \fIfilename\fR \fB<==\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Thus, a common way to display a set of short files, identifying each one,
is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBhead -9999 filename1 filename2 .\|.\|.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B head
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.BR /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
paths. It is invoked when
.B head
is executed without
a pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/head
or
.B /usr/bin/head
executable.
.sp
.LP
.B head
copies one or more input files to standard output, stopping at a
designated point for each file or to the end of the file whichever comes
first. Copying ends at the point indicated by the options. By default, a
header of the form
.B "==> filename <=="
is output before all but the first
file but this can be changed with the
.B -q
and
.B -v
options. If no
file is given, or if the file is
.BR - ,
.B head
copies from standard
input starting at the current location.
.sp
.LP
The option argument for
.B -c
and
.B -s
can optionally be followed by
one of the following characters to specify a different unit other than a
single byte:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
512 bytes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B k
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
1-kilobyte
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
1-megabyte
.RE

.sp
.LP
For backwards compatibility,
.B -number
is equivalent to
.BR -n
number.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/head"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR /usr/bin/head :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I number
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The first
.I number
lines of each input file is copied to standard
output. The
.I number
option-argument must be a positive decimal
integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\fInumber\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I number
argument is a positive decimal integer with the same
effect as the
.B -n
.I number
option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no options are specified,
.B head
acts as if
.B "-n 10"
had
been specified.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the head built-in command in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--lines=\fIlines\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Copy lines from each file. The default value is
.BR 10 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--bytes=\fIchars\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Copy
.I chars
bytes from each file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.br
.na
.B --quiet|silent
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Never output filename headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--skip=\fIskip\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Skip
.I skip
characters or lines from each file before copying.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.br
.na
.B --verbose
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Always output filename headers.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filename
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If no
.I file
operands are specified, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR head
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Writing the First Ten Lines of All Files
.sp
.LP
The following example writes the first ten lines of all files, except those
with a leading period, in the directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBhead *\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR head :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/head"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cat (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR pg (1),
.BR tail (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
