'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hostid 1 "4 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hostid \- print the numeric identifier of the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/hostid\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B hostid
command prints the identifier of the current host in
hexadecimal. If it is executed within a non-global zone that emulates a host
identifier, the emulated host identifier is printed. This numeric value is
likely to differ when
.B hostid
is run on a different machine.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR gethostid (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR zones (5)
