'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iconv 1 "14 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
iconv \- code set conversion utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR [\fB-cs\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfrommap\fR \fB-t\fR \fItomap\fR [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfromcode\fR [\fB-cs\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItocode\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-t\fR \fItocode\fR [\fB-cs\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfromcode\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-l\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iconv
utility converts the characters or sequences of characters in
.I file
from one code set to another and writes the results to standard
output. If no conversion exists for a particular character, an
implementation-defined conversion is performed on this character.
.sp
.LP
The list of supported conversions and the locations of the associated conversion
tables are provided in the
.BR iconv (5)
manual page.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Omits any characters that are invalid in the codeset of the input file from the
output. When
.B -c
is not used, the results of encountering invalid characters
in the input stream depend on the specified codesets for the conversion. Invalid
characters can be either those that are not valid characters in the codeset of
the input file or those that have no corresponding character in the codeset of
the output file. The presence or absence of
.B -c
does not affect the exit
status of
.BR iconv .
When \fIfromcode\fR is specified for the \fIfromcodeset\fR
of the \fB-f\fR option or \fItocode\fR is specified for the \fItocodeset\fR of
the
.B -t
option, the specification of
.B -c
may be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I fromcodeset
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Identifies the code set of the input file. The following two forms of the
.I fromcodeset
option-argument are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fromcode
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The \fIfromcode\fR option-argument must not contain a	 slash (\fB/\fR)
character. It is interpreted as the name of one of the codeset descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I frommap
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The
.I frommap
option-argument must contain a slash character. It is
interpreted as the pathname of a charmap file as defined in
.BR charmap (5).
If
the pathname does not represent a valid, readable charmap file, the results are
undefined.
.RE

If this option is omitted, the codeset of the current locale is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Writes all supported
.I fromcode
and
.I tocode
values to standard
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Suppresses any messages written to standard error concerning invalid characters.
When
.B -s
is not used, the results of encountering invalid characters in the
input stream depend on the specified codesets for the conversion. Invalid
characters can be either those that are not valid characters in the codeset of
the input file or those that have no corresponding character in the codeset of
the output file. The presence or absence of
.B -s
does not affect the exit
status of
.BR iconv .
When
.I fromcode
is 	specified for the
.I fromcodeset
of the \fB-f\fR option or \fItocode\fR is specified for the
.I tocodeset
of the
.B -t
option, the specification of
.B -s
may be
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I tocodeset
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Identifies the code set used for the output file. The following two forms of the
.I tocodeset
option-argument are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tocode
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I tocode
option-argument must not contain a	 slash (\fB/\fR) character.
It is interpreted as the name of one of the codeset descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tomap
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I tomap
option-argument must contain a slash character. It is
interpreted as the pathname of a charmap file as defined in
.BR charmap (5).
If
the pathname does not represent a valid, readable charmap file, the results are
undefined.
.RE

If this option is omitted, the codeset of the current locale is used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If either \fB-f\fR or \fB-t\fR represents a charmap file but the other does not,
or is omitted, or if both \fB-f\fR and \fB-t\fR are omitted, \fBiconv\fR fails as
an error.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If no file operands are specified, or if a file
operand is '\fB-\fR', the standard input is used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Converting and storing files
.sp
.LP
The following example converts the contents of file
.B mail1
from code set
.B 8859
to
.B 646fr
and stores the results in file
.BR mail.local :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBiconv -f 8859 -t 646fr mail1 > mail.local\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR iconv :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/iconv/iconv_data
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
list of conversions supported by conversion tables
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iconv (3C),
.BR iconv_open (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR charmap (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR iconv (5),
.BR iconv_unicode (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Make sure that both charmap files use the same symbolic names for characters the
two codesets have in common.
.sp
.LP
The output format of the
.B -l
option is unspecified. The
.B -l
option is
not intended for shell script usage.
.sp
.LP
When \fIfromcode\fR or \fItocode\fR is specified for the codeset conversion,
.B iconv
uses the \fBiconv_open\fR(3C) function. If \fBiconv_open\fR(3C) fails
to open the specified codeset conversion,
.B iconv
searches for an appropriate
conversion table. As for the supported codeset conversion by
.BR iconv_open (3C),
please refer to
.BR iconv (5)
and
.BR iconv_locale (5).
