'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH indxbib 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
indxbib \- create an inverted index to a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBindxbib\fR \fIdatabase-file\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B indxbib
makes an inverted index to the named \fIdatabase-file\fR
(which must reside within the current directory), typically for use by
.BR lookbib (1)
and
.BR refer (1).
A
.I database
contains bibliographic
references (or other kinds of information) separated by blank lines.
.sp
.LP
A bibliographic reference is a set of lines, constituting fields of
bibliographic information.  Each field starts on a line beginning with a
`\fB%\fR', followed by a key-letter, then a blank, and finally the contents
of the field, which may continue until the next line starting with
`\fB%\fR'.
.sp
.LP
.B indxbib
is a shell script that calls two programs:
.B /usr/lib/refer/mkey
and
.BR /usr/lib/refer/inv .
.B mkey
truncates
words to 6 characters, and maps upper case to lower case.  It also discards
words shorter than 3 characters, words among the 100 most common English
words, and numbers (dates) < 1000 or > 2099.  These parameters can be
changed.
.sp
.LP
.B indxbib
creates an entry file (with a \fB\&.ia\fR suffix), a posting
file (\fB\&.ib\fR), and a tag file (\fB\&.ic\fR), in the working
directory.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/refer/mkey
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/refer/inv
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIx\fB\&.ia\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
entry file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIx\fB\&.ib\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
posting file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIx\fB\&.ic\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
tag file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIx\fB\&.ig\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
reference file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
All dates should probably be indexed, since many disciplines refer to
literature written in the 1800s or earlier.
.sp
.LP
.B indxbib
does not recognize pathnames.
