'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipcrm 1 "9 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipcrm\fR [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIshmid\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fImsqid\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsemid\fR]
     [\fB-M\fR \fIshmkey\fR] [\fB-Q\fR \fImsgkey\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsemkey\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ipcrm
removes one or more messages, semaphores, or shared memory
identifiers.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zone
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Keys specified by other options refer to facilities in the specified zone
(see
.BR zones (5)).
The default is the zone in which the command is
executing. This option is only useful when the command is executed in the
global zone.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The identifiers are specified by the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I shmid
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the shared memory identifier
.I shmid
from the system. The
shared memory segment and data structure associated with it are destroyed
after the last detach.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.I msqid
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the message queue identifier
.I msqid
from the system and
destroys the message queue and data structure associated with it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I semid
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the semaphore identifier
.I semid
from the system and destroys
the set of semaphores and data structure associated with it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.I shmkey
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the shared memory identifier, created with key
.IR shmkey ,
from
the system. The shared memory segment and data structure associated with it
are destroyed after the last detach.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.I msgkey
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the message queue identifier, created with key
.IR msgkey ,
from
the system and destroys the message queue and data structure associated with
it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I semkey
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Removes the semaphore identifier, created with key
.IR semkey ,
from the
system and destroys the set of semaphores and data structure associated with
it.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The details of the removes are described in
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
and
.BR semctl (2).
Use the
.B ipcs
command to find the
identifiers and keys.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR ipcrm :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipc
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR zones (5)
