'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipcs 1 "17 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ipcs \- report inter-process communication facilities status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipcs\fR [\fB-aAbciJmopqstZ\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fImtype\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipcs
utility prints information about active inter-process
communication facilities. The information that is displayed is controlled by
the options supplied. Without options, information is printed in short
format for message queues, shared memory, and semaphores that are currently
active in the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints information about active shared memory segments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints information about active message queues.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints information about active semaphores.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If
.BR -m ,
.BR -q ,
or
.B -s
are specified, information about only
those indicated is printed. If none of these three is specified, information
about all three is printed subject to these options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Uses all XCU5 print options. (This is a shorthand notation for \fB-b\fR,
.BR -c ,
.BR -o ,
.BR -p ,
and
.BR -t .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Uses all print options. (This is a shorthand notation for \fB-b\fR,
.BR -c ,
.BR -i ,
.BR -J ,
.BR -o ,
.BR -p ,
and
.BR -t .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints information on biggest allowable size: maximum number of bytes in
messages on queue for message queues, size of segments for shared memory,
and number of semaphores in each set for semaphores. See below for meaning
of columns in a listing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints creator's login name and group name. See below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-D\fR \fImtype\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Displays, in hexadecimal and
.BR ASCII ,
the contents of all messages of
type
.I mtype
found on any message queue that the user invoking
\fBipcs\fR has permission to read. If \fImtype\fR is
.BR 0 ,
all messages
are displayed. If
.I mtype
is negative, all messages with type less than
or equal to the absolute value of
.I mtype
are displayed. (See
.BR msgrcv (2)
and
.BR msgsnap (2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints number of
.B ISM
attaches to shared memory segments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -J
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints the creator's project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints information on outstanding usage: number of messages on queue and
total number of bytes in messages on queue for message queues and number of
processes attached to shared memory segments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints process number information: process
.B ID
of last process to send
a message, process
.B ID
of last process to receive a message on message
queues, process
.B ID
of creating process, and process
.B ID
of last
process to attach or detach on shared memory segments. See below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints time information: time of the last control operation that changed
the access permissions for all facilities, time of last
.BR msgsnd (2)
and
last
.BR msgrcv (2)
on message queues, time of last
.BR shmat (2)
and last
.BR shmdt (2)
on shared memory (see
.BR shmop (2)),
time of last
.BR semop (2)
on semaphores. See below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prints information about facilities associated with the specified zone (see
.BR zones (5)).
The zone can be specified as either a name or a numeric id.
The default is to display information about the zone in which the command is
executing. Notice that this option is only useful when executing in the
global zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
When executing in the global zone, prints information about all zones.
Otherwise, prints information about the zone in which the command is
executing. The output includes the zone associated with each facility.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The column headings and the meaning of the columns in an
.B ipcs
listing
are given below. The letters in parentheses indicate the options that cause
the corresponding heading to appear and "all" means that the heading always
appears.
.B Note:
These options only determine what information is
provided for each facility; they do not determine which facilities are
listed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR T " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Type of the facility:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B q
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
message queue
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
shared memory segment
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
semaphore
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ID " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The identifier for the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR KEY " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The key used as an argument to
.BR msgget (2),
.BR semget (2),
or
.BR shmget (2)
to create the facility entry. (\fBNote:\fR The  key of a
shared memory segment is changed to
.B IPC_PRIVATE
when the segment has
been removed until all processes attached to the segment detach it.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR MODE " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The facility access modes and flags: The mode consists of 11 characters
that are interpreted as follows. The first two characters are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B R
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
A process is waiting on a
.BR msgrcv (2).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B S
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
A process is waiting on a
.BR msgsnd (2).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The corresponding special flag is not set.
.RE

The next nine characters are interpreted as three sets of three bits each.
The first set refers to the owner's permissions; the next to permissions of
others in the user-group of the facility entry; and the last to all others.
Within each set, the first character indicates permission to read, the
second character indicates permission to write or alter the facility entry,
and the last character is currently unused.
.sp
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Read permission is granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Write permission is granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Alter permission is granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The indicated permission is not granted.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR OWNER " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The login name of the owner of the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR GROUP " (all)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The group name of the group of the owner of the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CREATOR " (a,A,c)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The login name of the creator of the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CGROUP " (a,A,c)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The group name of the group of the creator of the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CBYTES " (a,A,o)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The number of bytes in messages currently outstanding on the associated
message queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR QNUM " (a,A,o)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The number of messages currently outstanding on the associated message
queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR QBYTES " (a,A,b)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The maximum number of bytes allowed in messages outstanding on the
associated message queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR LSPID " (a,A,p)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the last process to send a message to the
associated queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR LRPID " (a,A,p)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the last process to receive a message from the
associated queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR STIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time the last message was sent to the associated queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR RTIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time the last message was received from the associated queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CTIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time when the associated entry was created or changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ISMATTCH " (a,i)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The number of
.B ISM
attaches to the associated shared memory
segments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR NATTCH " (a,A,o)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The number of processes attached to the associated shared memory segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR SEGSZ " (a,A,b)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The size of the associated shared memory segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CPID " (a,A,p)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the creator of the shared memory entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR LPID " (a,A,p)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the last process to attach or detach the shared
memory segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ATIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time the last attach was completed to the associated shared memory
segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR DTIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time the last detach was completed on the associated shared memory
segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR NSEMS " (a,A,b)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The number of semaphores in the set associated with the semaphore entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR OTIME " (a,A,t)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time the last semaphore operation was completed on the set associated
with the semaphore entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR PROJECT " (J,A)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The project name of the creator of the facility entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ZONE " (Z)"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The zone with which the facility is associated.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR ipcs :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Determine the timezone for the time strings written by
.BR ipcs .
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
group names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
user names
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipc
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgids (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnap (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semids (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmids (2),
.BR shmop (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Things can change while
.B ipcs
is running. The information it gives is
guaranteed to be accurate only when it was retrieved.
