'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH isainfo 1 "8 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
isainfo \- describe instruction set architectures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBisainfo\fR [ [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-b\fR | \fB-n\fR | \fB-k\fR] | [\fB-x\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B isainfo
utility is used to identify various attributes of the
instruction set architectures supported on the currently running system.
Among the questions it can answer are whether 64-bit applications are
supported, or whether the running kernel uses 32-bit or 64-bit device
drivers.
.sp
.LP
When invoked with no options,
.B isainfo
prints the names of the native
instruction sets for applications supported by the current version of the
operating system. These are a subset of the list returned by
.BR isalist (1).
The subset corresponds to the basic applications
environments supported by the currently running system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints the number of bits in the address space of the native instruction
set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints the name of the instruction set(s) used by the operating system
kernel components such as device drivers and
.B STREAMS
modules.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints the name of the native instruction set used by portable applications
supported by the current version of the operating system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
When used with the
.BR -b ,
.B -k
or
.B -n
options, prints more
detailed information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints instruction extensions to the native ABI which are supported by the
platform.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Invoking
.B isainfo
on a 32-bit x86 Platform
.sp
.LP
The following example invokes
.B isainfo
on a 32-bit x86 platform:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% isainfo -v
32-bit i386 applications

example% isainfo -k
i386
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Invoking
.B isainfo
on a System Running the 64-bit
Operating System on a 64-bit SPARC Processor
.sp
.LP
The following example invokes
.B isainfo
on a system running the 64-bit
operating system on a 64-bit SPARC processor:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% isainfo
sparcv9 sparc
example% isainfo -n
sparcv9
example% isainfo -v
64-bit sparcv9 applications
32-bit sparc applications
example% isainfo -vk
64-bit sparcv9 kernel modules
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Invoking
.B "isainfo -x"
on an AMD Opteron CPU
.sp
.LP
The following example invokes
.B isainfo
with the
.B -x
option on an
AMD Opteron CPU:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% isainfo -x
i386: fpu tsc cx8 sep cmov mmx ammx a3dnow a3dnowx fxsr sse sse2 pause
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Options are not specified correctly, or the command is unable to recognize
attributes of the system on which it is running. An error message is printed
to
.BR stderr .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR isalist (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR psrinfo (1M),
.BR getisax (2),
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR isalist (5)
