'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kbd 1 "29 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kbd \- manipulate the state of keyboard, or display the type of keyboard, or
change the default keyboard abort sequence effect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkbd\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-t\fR ] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-a\fR enable | disable | alternate]
     [\fB-c\fR on | off] [\fB-d\fR \fIkeyboard device\fR]
     [\fB-D\fR \fIautorepeat delay\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIautorepeat rate\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBkbd\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIkeyboard device\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBkbd\fR \fB-s\fR [\fIlanguage\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBkbd\fR \fB-b\fR [\fBkeyboard\fR | \fBconsole\fR] \fIfrequency\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kbd
utility manipulates the state of the keyboard, or displays the
keyboard type, or allows the default keyboard abort sequence effect to be
changed. The abort sequence also applies to serial console devices. The
\fBkbd\fR utility sets the \fB/dev/kbd\fR default keyboard device.
.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B -i
option reads and processes default values for the keyclick and
keyboard abort settings from the \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR keyboard default file.
Only keyboards that support a clicker respond to the
.B -c
option. To turn
clicking on by default, add or change the value of the
.B KEYCLICK
variable
in the \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR file to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
KEYCLICK=on
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Next, run the command
.B "kbd -i"
to change the setting. Valid
settings for the
.B KEYCLICK
variable are
.B on
and
.BR off ;
all other
values are ignored. If the
.B KEYCLICK
variable is not specified in the
default file, the setting is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
The keyboard abort sequence effect can only be changed by a super-user using
the
.B -a
option. This sequence is typically Stop-A or L1-A and Shift-Pause
on the keyboard on
.B SPARC
systems, F1-A and Shift-Pause on x86 systems,
and BREAK on the serial console input device on most systems.
.sp
.LP
A
.B BREAK
condition that originates from an erroneous electrical signal
cannot be distinguished from one deliberately sent by remote
.BR DCE .
As a
remedy, use the
.B -a
option with Alternate Break to switch break
interpretation. Due to the risk of incorrect sequence interpretation, binary
protocols such as
.B SLIP
and others should not be run over the serial
console port when Alternate Break sequence is in effect.
.sp
.LP
Although PPP is a binary protocol, it has the ability to avoid using
characters that interfere with serial operation. The default alternate break
sequence is CTRL-m
.B ~
CTRL-b, or
.B "0D 7E 02"
in hexidecimal. In PPP,
this can be avoided by setting either
.B 0x00000004
or
.B 0x00002000
in
the ACCM. This forces an escape for the CTRL-b or CTRL-m characters,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
To do this in Solaris PPP 4.0, add:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
asyncmap 0x00002000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to the
.B /etc/ppp/options
file or any of the other configuration files
used for the connection. See \fBpppd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
SLIP has no comparable capability, and must not be used if the Alternate
Break sequence is in use.
.sp
.LP
The Alternate Break sequence has no effect on the keyboard abort. For more
information on the Alternate Break sequence, see \fBzs\fR(7D),\fBse\fR(7D),
and
.BR asy (7D).
.sp
.LP
On many systems, the default effect of the keyboard abort sequence is to
suspend the operating system and enter the debugger or the monitor. Some
systems feature key switches with a
.B secure
position. On these systems,
setting the key switch to the
.B secure
position overrides any software
default set with this command.
.sp
.LP
To permanently change the software default effect of the keyboard abort
sequence, first add or change the value of the
.B KEYBOARD_ABORT
variable
in the \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR file to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
KEYBOARD_ABORT=disable
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Next, run the command
.B "kbd -i"
to change the setting. Valid
settings are
.BR enable ,
.BR disable ,
and
.BR alternate ;
all other
values are ignored. If the variable is not specified in the default file, the
setting is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
To set the abort sequence to the hardware BREAK, set the value of the
\fBKEYBOARD_ABORT\fR variable in the \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR file to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
KEYBOARD_ABORT=enable
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To change the current setting, run the command
.BR "kbd -i" .
To set the
abort sequence to the Alternate Break character sequence, first set the
current value of the
.B KEYBOARD_ABORT
variable in the
\fB/etc/default/kbd\fR file to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
KEYBOARD_ABORT=alternate
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Next, run the command
.B "kbd -i"
to change the setting. When the
Alternate Break sequence is in effect, only serial console devices are
affected.
.sp
.LP
To set the autorepeat delay by default, set the
.B REPEAT_DELAY
variable
in the file \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR to the expected value with units in
milliseconds (ms). To avoid making the keyboard unusable due to a
typographical error, delay values below
.B KIOCRPTDELAY_MIN
(defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/kbio.h )
are rejected with
.BR EINVAL :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
REPEAT_DELAY=500
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To set the autorepeat rate by default, set the
.B REPEAT_RATE
variable in
the file \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR to the expected value with units in
milliseconds. Negative and zero repeat rates are ejected with \fBEINVAL\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
REPEAT_RATE=33
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To change the current settings of
.I delay
and
.IR rate ,
run the
command,
.BR "kbd -i" .
When the Auto Repeat Delay and/or Auto Repeat
Rate are in effect, only command line mode is affected.
.sp
.LP
To set the language by default, set the
.B LAYOUT
variable in the file
\fB/etc/default/kbd\fR to the expected language. These languages supported in
kernel can be found by running
.BR "kbd -s" .
Other values are ignored.
For example, the following sets Spanish layout to the keyboard:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LAYOUT=Spanish
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Next, run the
.B "kbd -i"
to change the setting. When Solaris reboots,
the Spanish key table is loaded into kernel. These layouts are valid for
\fBusb\fR and \fBps/2\fR keyboards.
.sp
.LP
To set the keyboard beeper frequency by default, set the
\fBKBD_BEEPER_FREQ\fR variable in the file \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR to the
expected value with units in HZ. This value should be between 0 and 32767,
inclusive. Otherwise will be rejected with \fBEINVAL\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
KBD_BEEPER_FREQ=2000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To set the console beeper frequency by default, set the
\fBCONSOLE_BEEPER_FREQ\fR variable in the file \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR to the
expected value with units in HZ. This value should be between 0 and 32767,
inclusive. Otherwise will be rejected with \fBEINVAL\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
CONSOLE_BEEPER_FREQ=900
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To change the current settings of keyboard beeper frequency and console
beeper frequency, run \fBkbd -i\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a enable\fR | \fBdisable\fR | \fBalternate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables, disables, or alternates the keyboard abort sequence effect. By
default, a keyboard abort sequence suspends the operating system on most
systems. This sequence is typically Stop-A or L1-A and Shift-Pause on the
keyboard on
.B SPARC
systems, F1-A and Shift-Pause on x86 systems, and
BREAK on the serial console device.
.sp
The default keyboard behavior can be changed using this option. The \fB-a\fR
option can only be used by a super-user.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enable
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Enables the default effect of the keyboard abort sequence (suspend the
operating system and enter the debugger or the monitor).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disable
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables the default/alternate effect and ignores keyboard abort sequences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B alternate
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Enables the alternate effect of the keyboard abort sequences (suspend the
operating system and enter the debugger or the monitor) upon receiving the
Alternate Break character sequence on the console. The Alternate Break
sequence is defined by the drivers \fBzs\fR(7D), \fBse\fR(7D), \fBasy\fR(7D).
Due to a risk of incorrect sequence interpretation, binary protocols cannot be
run over the serial console port when this value is used.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-b keyboard\fR | \fBconsole\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the beeper frequency for keyboard or console.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B keyboard
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set the keyboard beeper frequency to the operand in HZ. See \fBOPERANDS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B console
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Sets the console beeper frequency to the operand in HZ. See \fBOPERANDS\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c on\fR | \fBoff\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns the clicking of the keyboard on or off.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B on
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Enables clicking
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoff\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Disables clicking
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIkeyboard device\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the keyboard device being set. The default setting is
.BR /dev/kbd .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-D\fR \fIautorepeat delay\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the autorepeat delay in milliseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets keyboard properties from the keyboard default file. With the exception
of
.BR -d
.IR "keyboard device" ,
this option cannot be used with any other
option. The
.B -i
option instructs the keyboard command to read and process
keyclick and keyboard abort default values from the \fB/etc/default/kbd\fR
file. The
.B -i
option can only be used by a user or role with the Device
Security Rights Profile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the layout code of the keyboard being used, and the autorepeat delay
and autorepeat rate being used.
.sp
If used with -R or -D option, this option returns the value before the
changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resets the keyboard as if power-up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-R\fR \fIautorepeat rate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the autorepeat rate in milliseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fB[\fIlanguage\fB]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the keyboard layout into kernel.
.sp
If
.I language
is specified, the layout is set to
.IR language .
If
\fIlanguage\fR is not specified, a list of available layouts are presented,
prompting for the user to specify the
.IR language .
See
.BR OPERANDS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the type of the keyboard being used.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfrequency\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The frequency value specified to be set in kernel. The receiver of this value
is specified by the
.B -b
option. This value should be between 0 and 32767
otherwise will be ejected with
.BR EINVAL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B language
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The language specified to be set in kernel. If the language is not found, the
languages supported are listed for selection. It only applies to \fB-s\fR
option. 
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Displaying the Keyboard Type
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the keyboard type:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -t
Type 4 Sun keyboard
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Setting Keyboard Defaults
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the keyboard defaults as specified in the keyboard
default file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# kbd -i
example#
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Displaying Information
.sp
.LP
The following example displays keyboard type and layout code. It also
displays auto repeat delay and rate settings.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -l
type=4
layout=43 (0x2b)
delay(ms)=500
rate(ms)=33
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Setting Keyboard Autorepeat Delay
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the keyboard autorepeat delay:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -D 300
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5\fR Setting Keyboard Autorepeat Rate
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the keyboard autorepeat rate:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -R 50
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6\fR Selecting and Setting the Keyboard Language
.sp
.LP
The following example selects and sets the keyboard language from a list of
languages specified:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -s
1. Albanian                      16. Malta_UK
2. Belarusian                    17. Malta_US
3. Belgian                       18. Norwegian
4. Bulgarian                     19. Portuguese
5. Croatian                      20. Russian
6. Danish                        21. Serbia-And-Montenegro
7. Dutch                         22. Slove
\&......

To select the keyboard layout, enter a number [default n]:

example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example sets the keyboard language specified:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -s Dutch
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7\fR Setting the Keyboard Beeper Frequency
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the keyboard beeper frequency:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% kbd -b keyboard 1000
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/kbd
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Keyboard device file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/default/kbd\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Keyboard default file containing software defaults for keyboard
configurations.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR loadkeys (1),
.BR svcs (1),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR inetadm (1M),
.BR kadb (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR pppd (1M),
.BR keytables (4),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBsmf\fR(5), \fBkb\fR(7M), \fBzs\fR(7D), \fBse\fR(7D),
.BR asy (7D),
.BR virtualkm (7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Some server systems have key switches with a
.B secure
key position that
can be read by system software. This key position overrides the normal default
of the keyboard abort sequence effect and changes the default so the effect is
disabled. When the key switch is in the
.B secure
position on these
systems, the keyboard abort sequence effect cannot be overridden by the
software default, which is settable with the
.B kbd
utility.
.sp
.LP
Currently, there is no way to determine the state of the keyboard click
setting.
.sp
.LP
The
.B kdb
service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/keymap:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.BR svcadm (1M).
Responsibility
for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to
.BR inetd (1M).
Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration
information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the
.BR svcs (1)
command.
