'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kdestroy 1 "30 Apr 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kdestroy \- destroy Kerberos tickets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/kdestroy\fR [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcache_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kdestroy
utility destroys the user's active Kerberos
authorization tickets by writing zeros to the specified credentials cache
that contains them. If the credentials cache is not specified, the default
credentials cache is destroyed. If the credentials cache does not exist,
\fBkdestroy\fR displays a message to that effect.
.sp
.LP
After overwriting the cache,
.B kdestroy
removes the cache from the
system. The utility displays a message indicating the success or failure of
the operation. If
.B kdestroy
is unable to destroy the cache, it will
warn you by making your terminal beep.
.sp
.LP
If desired, you can place the
.B kdestroy
command in your
\fB\&.logout\fR file so that your tickets are destroyed automatically when
you logout.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIcache_name\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Uses
.I cache_name
as the credentials (ticket) cache name and location.
If this option is not used, the default cache name and location are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Runs quietly. Your terminal will not beep when
.B kdestroy
fails to
destroy the tickets.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
\fBkdestroy\fR uses the following environment variable:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KRB5CCNAME
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Location of the credentials (ticket) cache. See
.BR krb5envvar (5)
for
syntax and details.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Default credentials cache (\fIuid\fR is the decimal \fBUID\fR of the
user).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
Command argumentsEvolving
_
Command outputUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kinit (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kerberos (5),
.BR krb5envvar (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Only the tickets in the specified credentials cache are destroyed. Separate
ticket caches are used to hold root instance and password changing tickets.
These files should probably be destroyed too, or all of a user's tickets
should be kept in a single credential cache.
