'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH keylogout 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
keylogout \- delete stored secret key with keyserv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/keylogout\fR [\fB-f\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBkeylogout\fR deletes the key stored by the key server process
.BR keyserv (1M).
Further access to the key is revoked; however, current
session keys might remain valid until they expire or are refreshed.
.sp
.LP
Deleting the keys stored by
.B keyserv
causes any background jobs or
scheduled
.BR at (1)
jobs that need secure RPC services to fail. Since only
one copy of the key is kept on a machine, it is a bad idea to place a call
to this command in your  \fB\&.logout\fR file since it affects other
sessions on the same machine.
.sp
.LP
If multiple NIS+ authentication mechanisms are configured for the system,
then all keys stored by the key server process is deleted, including  keys
that are no longer configured.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force
.B keylogout
to delete the secret key for the superuser. By
default,
.B keylogout
by the superuser is disallowed because it would
break all RPC services, such as 
.B NFS,
that are started by the
superuser.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR at (1),
.BR chkey (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR keyserv (1M),
.BR newkey (1M),
\fBnisauthconf\fR(1M),
.BR publickey (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
