'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH keylogin 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
keylogin \- decrypt and store secret key with keyserv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/keylogin\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B keylogin
command prompts for a password, and uses it to decrypt the
user's secret key. The key can be found in the
.B /etc/publickey
file (see
.BR publickey (4))
or the  NIS map ``publickey.byname'' or the NIS+ table
``cred.org_dir'' in the user's home domain. The sources and their lookup order
are specified in the \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4).
Once decrypted, the user's secret key is stored by the local key server process,
.BR keyserv (1M).
This stored key is used when issuing requests to any secure
RPC services, such as
.B NFS
or NIS+. The program
.BR keylogout (1)
can be
used to delete the key stored by
.B keyserv
\fB\&.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBkeylogin\fR fails if it cannot get the caller's key, or the password given is
incorrect. For a new user or host, a new key can be added using
.BR newkey (1M),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
or
.BR nisclient (1M).
.sp
.LP
If multiple authentication mechanisms are configured for the system, each of the
configured mechanism's secret key is decrypted and stored by  \fBkeyserv\fR(1M).
See \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M) for information on configuring multiple authentication
mechanisms.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Update the
.B /etc/.rootkey
file. This file holds the unencrypted secret key
of the superuser. Only the superuser can use this option. It is used so that
processes running as superuser can issue authenticated requests without requiring
that the administrator explicitly run
.B keylogin
as superuser at system
startup time. See
.BR keyserv (1M).
The
.B -r
option should be used by the
administrator when the host's entry in the publickey database has changed, and
the
.B /etc/.rootkey
file has become out-of-date with  respect to the actual
key pair stored in the publickey database. The permissions on the
\fB/etc/.rootkey\fR file are such that it can be read and written by the
superuser but by no other user on the system.
.sp
If multiple authentication mechanisms are configured for the system, each of the
configured mechanism's secret keys is stored in the
.B /etc/.rootkey
file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/.rootkey
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
superuser's secret key
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chkey (1),
.BR keylogout (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR keyserv (1M),
.BR newkey (1M),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
.BR nisauthconf (1M),
.BR nisclient (1M),
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBpublickey\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system.
Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris
release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
