'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kinit 1 "12 Nov 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kinit \- obtain and cache Kerberos ticket-granting ticket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/kinit\fR [\fB-ARvV\fR] [\fB-p\fR | \fB-P\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcache_name\fR]
     [\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab_file\fR]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlifetime\fR]
     [\fB-r\fR \fIrenewable_life\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIstart_time\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIservice_name\fR]
     [\fIprincipal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kinit
command is used to obtain and cache an initial
ticket-granting ticket (credential) for
.IR principal .
This ticket is used
for authentication by the Kerberos system. Only users with Kerberos
principals can use the Kerberos system. For information about Kerberos
principals, see
.BR kerberos (5).
.sp
.LP
When you use
.B kinit
without options, the utility prompts for your
.I principal
and Kerberos password, and tries to authenticate your login
with the local Kerberos server. The
.I principal
can be specified on the
command line if desired.
.sp
.LP
If Kerberos authenticates the login attempt,
.B kinit
retrieves your
initial ticket-granting ticket and puts it in the ticket cache. By default
your ticket is stored in the file \fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR, where
.I uid
specifies your user identification number. Tickets expire after a
specified lifetime, after which
.B kinit
must be run again. Any existing
contents of the cache are destroyed by
.BR kinit .
.sp
.LP
Values specified in the command line override the values specified in the
.RI "Kerberos configuration file for " lifetime " and " renewable_life .
.sp
.LP
The
.BR kdestroy (1)
command can be used to destroy any active tickets
before you end your login session.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests tickets with the local addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests address-less tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I cache_name
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Uses
.I cache_name
as the credentials (ticket) cache name and location.
If this option is not used, the default cache name and location are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests forwardable tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Not forwardable. Does not request forwardable tickets.
.sp
Tickets that have been acquired on one host cannot normally be used on
another host. A client can request that the ticket be marked forwardable.
Once the
.B TKT_FLG_FORWARDABLE
flag is set on a ticket, the user can use
this ticket to request a new ticket, but with a different
.B IP
address.
Thus, users can use their current credentials to get credentials valid on
another machine. This option allows a user to explicitly obtain a
non-forwardable ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab_file\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests a host ticket, obtained from a key in the local host's
.I keytab
file. The name and location of the keytab file can be specified
with the
.B -t
.I keytab_file
option. Otherwise, the default name and
location is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I lifetime
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests a ticket with the lifetime
.IR lifetime .
If the
.B -l
option
is not specified, the default ticket lifetime (configured by each site) is
used. Specifying a ticket lifetime longer than the maximum ticket lifetime
(configured by each site) results in a ticket with the maximum lifetime. See
the
.B "Time Formats"
section for the valid time duration formats
that you can specify for
.IR lifetime .
See
.BR kdc.conf (4)
and
.BR kadmin (1M)
(for
.B getprinc
command to verify the lifetime values
for the server principal).
.sp
The lifetime of the tickets returned is the minimum of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the command line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the
.B KDC
configuration file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos data base for the server principal. In the
case of
.BR kinit ,
it is
.BR "krbtgt/\fIrealm name" .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos database for the user principal.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests proxiable tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Not proxiable. Does not request proxiable tickets.
.sp
A proxiable ticket is a ticket that allows you to get a ticket for a
service with
.B IP
addresses other than the ones in the Ticket Granting
Ticket. This option allows a user to explicitly obtain a non-proxiable
ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I renewable_life
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests renewable tickets, with a total lifetime of
.IR renewable_life .
See the
.B "Time Formats"
section for the valid time duration formats
that you can specify for
.IR renewable_life .
See
.BR kdc.conf (4)
and
.BR kadmin (1M)
(for
.B getprinc
command to verify the lifetime values
for the server principal).
.sp
The renewable lifetime of the tickets returned is the minimum of the
following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the command line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the
.B KDC
configuration file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos data base for the server principal. In the
case of
.BR kinit ,
it is
.BR "krbtgt/\fIrealm name" .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos database for the user principal.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests renewal of the ticket-granting ticket. Notice that an expired
ticket cannot be renewed, even if the ticket is still within its renewable
life.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I start_time
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests a postdated ticket, valid starting at
.IR start_time .
Postdated
tickets are issued with the
.I invalid
flag set, and need to be fed back
to the
.B KDC
before use. See the
.B "Time Formats"
section for
either the valid absolute time or time duration formats that you can specify
for
.IR start_time .
.B kinit
attempts to match an absolute time first
before trying to match a time duration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I service_name
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Specifies an alternate service name to use when getting initial tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Requests that the ticket granting ticket in the cache (with the
.I invalid
flag set) be passed to the
.B KDC
for validation. If the
ticket is within its requested time range, the cache is replaced with the
validated ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Verbose output. Displays further information to the user, such as
confirmation of authentication and version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-X\fR \fIattribute\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Specifies a pre-authentication attribute and value to be passed to
pre-authentication plugins. The acceptable
.I attribute
and
.IR value
values vary from pre-authentication plugin to plugin. This option can be
specified multiple times to specify multiple attributes. If no value is
specified, it is assumed to be
.BR yes .
.sp
The following attributes are recognized by the OpenSSL
.BR pkinit
pre-authentication mechanism:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_user_identity=URI
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Specifies where to find user's X509 identity information.
.sp
Valid URI types are
.BR FILE ,
.BR DIR ,
.BR PKCS11 ,
.BR PKCS12 ,
and
.BR ENV .
See the
.B "PKINIT URI Types"
section for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_anchors=URI
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Specifies where to find trusted X509 anchor information.
.sp
Valid URI types are
.B FILE
and
.BR DIR .
See the\fBPKINIT URI Types\fR
section for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B flag_RSA_PROTOCOL[=yes]
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Specifies the use of RSA, rather than the default Diffie-Hellman protoco.
.RE

.RE

.SS "PKINIT URI Types"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBFILE:\fIfile-name\fR[,\fIkey-file-name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option has context-specific behavior.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_user_identity
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.I file-name
specifies the name of a PEM-format file containing the
user's certificate. If
.I key-file-name
is not specified, the user's
private key is expected to be in
.I file-name
as well. Otherwise,
.I key-file-name
is the name of the file  containing the private key.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_anchors
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.I file-name
is assumed to be the name of an OpenSSL-style ca-bundle
file. The
.B ca-bundle
file should be base-64 encoded.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI DIR: directory-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option has context-specific behavior.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_user_identity
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.I directory-name
specifies a directory with files named
.B *.crt
and
.BR *.key ,
where the first part of the file name is the same for matching
pairs of certificate and private key files. When a file with a name ending
with \fB\&.crt\fR is found, a matching file ending with \fB\&.key\fR is
assumed to contain the private key. If no such file is found, then the
certificate in the \fB\&.crt\fR is not used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X509_anchors
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.I directory-name
is assumed to be an OpenSSL-style hashed CA directory
where each CA cert is stored in a file named \fBhash-of-ca-cert.\fI#\fR.
This infrastructure is encouraged, but all files in the directory are
examined and if they contain certificates (in PEM format), and are used.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI PKCS12: pkcs12-file-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIpkcs12-file-nam\fRe is the name of a
.B PKCS #12
format file,
containing the user's certificate and private key.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBPKCS11:[slotid=\fIslot-id\fR][:token=\fItoken-label\fR][:certid=\fIcert-id\fR][:certlabel=\fIcert-label\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All keyword and values are optional. PKCS11 modules (for example,
.BR opensc-pkcs11.so )
must be installed as a crypto provider
under\fBlibpkcs11\fR(3LIB).
.B slotid=
and/or
.B token=
can be
specified to force the use of a particular smard card reader or token if
there is more than one available.
.B certid=
and/or
.B certlabel=
can
be specified to force the selection of a particular certificate on the
device. See the
.B pkinit_cert_match
configuration option for more ways
to select a particular certificate to use for
.BR pkinit .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ENV: environment-variable-name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.I environment-variable-name
specifies the name of an environment
variable which has been set to a value conforming to one of the previous
values. For example,
.BR ENV:X509_PROXY ,
where environment variable
.B X509_PROXY
has been set to
.BR FILE:/tmp/my_proxy.pem .
.RE

.SS "Time Formats"
.sp
.LP
The following absolute time formats can be used for the
.BR -s
.I start_time
option. The examples are based on the date and time of July
2, 1999, 1:35:30 p.m.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
Absolute Time FormatExample
\fIyymmddhhmm\fR[\fIss\fR]990702133530
\fIhhmm\fR[\fIss\fR]133530
\fIyy\fR.\fImm\fR.\fBdd\fR.\fIhh\fR.\fImm\fR.\fIss\fR99:07:02:13:35:30
\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]13:35:30
\fIldate\fR:\fIltime\fR07-07-99:13:35:30
\fBdd\fR-\fImonth\fR-\fIyyyy\fR:\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]02-july-1999:13:35:30
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
VariableDescription
\fBdd\fRday
\fIhh\fRhour (24-hour clock)
\fImm\fRminutes
\fIss\fRseconds
\fIyy\fRT{
year within century (0-68 is 2000 to 2068; 69-99 is 1969 to 1999)
T}
\fIyyyy\fRyear including century
\fImonth\fRlocale's full or abbreviated month name
\fIldate\fRlocale's appropriate date representation
\fIltime\fRlocale's appropriate time representation
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following time duration formats can be used for the
.BR -l
.IR lifetime ,
.B -r
.IR renewable_life ,
and
.B -s
.I start_time
options. The examples are based on the time duration of 14 days, 7 hours, 5
minutes, and 30 seconds.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
Time Duration FormatExample
\fI#\fRd14d
\fI#\fRh7h
\fI#\fRm5m
\fI#\fRs30s
\fI#\fRd\fI#\fRh\fI#\fRm\fI#\fRs14d7h5m30s
\fI#\fRh\fI#\fRm[\fI#\fRs]7h5m30s
\fIdays\fR-\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR14-07:05:30
\fIhours\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]7:05:30
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
DelimiterDescription
dnumber of days
hnumber of hours
mnumber of minutes
snumber of seconds
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
VariableDescription
\fI#\fRnumber
\fIdays\fRnumber of days
\fIhours\fRnumber of hours
\fIhh\fRhour (24-hour clock)
\fImm\fRminutes
\fIss\fRseconds
.TE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
.B kinit
uses the following environment variable:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KRB5CCNAME
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Location of the credentials (ticket) cache. See
.BR krb5envvar (5)
for
syntax and details.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI /tmp/krb5cc_ uid
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default credentials cache (\fIuid\fR is the decimal
.B UID
of the
user).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default location for the local host's
.B keytab
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.conf
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default location for the local host's configuration file. See
.BR krb5.conf (4).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command arguments are Evolving. The command output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kdestroy (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR kadmin (1M),
.BR ktkt_warnd (1M),
.BR libpkcs11 (3LIB),
.BR kdc.conf (4),
.BR krb5.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kerberos (5),
.BR krb5envvar (5),
.BR pam_krb5 (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
On success,
.B kinit
notifies
.BR ktkt_warnd "(1M) to alert the user"
when the initial credentials (ticket-granting ticket) are about to expire.
