'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH klist 1 "16 Nov 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
klist \- list currently held Kerberos tickets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/klist\fR [\fB-e\fR]
     [ [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-a\fR [\fB-n\fR]] [\fIcache_name\fR]]
     [\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fIkeytab_file\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B klist
utility prints the name of the credentials cache, the
identity of the principal that the tickets are for (as listed in the ticket
file), and the principal names of all Kerberos tickets currently held by the
user, along with the issue and expiration time for each authenticator.
Principal names are listed in the form
\fIname\fB/\fIinstance\fB@\fIrealm\fR, with the '\fB/\fR'
omitted if the instance is not included, and the '\fB@\fR' omitted if the
realm is  not included.
.sp
.LP
If \fIcache_file\fR or \fIkeytab_name\fR is not specified, \fBklist\fR
displays the credentials in the default credentials cache or keytab files as
appropriate. By default, your ticket is stored in the file
\fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR, where \fIuid\fR is the current user-ID of the
user.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays list of addresses in credentials. Uses the configured nameservice
to translate numeric network addresses to the associated hostname if
possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR [\fIcache_name\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Lists tickets held in a credentials cache. This is the default if neither
.B -c
nor
.B -k
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays the encryption types of the session key and the ticket for each
credential in the credential cache, or each key in the keytab file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Shows the flags present in the credentials, using the following
abbreviations:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Anonymous
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Pre-authenticated
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Post-dated
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B D
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Post-dateable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B f
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Forwarded
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B F
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Forwardable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B H
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Hardware authenticated
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B i
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B I
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Initial
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B O
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Okay as delegate
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Proxy
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Proxiable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B R
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Renewable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Transit policy checked
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR [\fIkeytab_file\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
List keys held in a
.B keytab
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -K
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays the value of the encryption key in each keytab entry in the keytab
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Shows numeric
.B IP
addresses instead of reverse-resolving addresses.
Only valid with
.B -a
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Causes
.B klist
to run silently (produce no output), but to still set
the exit status according to whether it finds the credentials cache. The
exit status is
.B 0
if
.B klist
finds a credentials cache, and
`\fB1\fRif it does not, or if the local-realm TGT has expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays the time entry timestamps for each keytab entry in the keytab
file.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
.B klist
uses the following environment variable:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KRB5CCNAME
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Location of the credentials (ticket) cache. See
.BR krb5envvar (5)
for
syntax and details.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default credentials cache (\fIuid\fR is the decimal \fBUID\fR of the
user).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default location for the local host's
.B keytab
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.conf
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default location for the local host's configuration file. See
.BR krb5.conf (4).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command arguments are Evolving. The command output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kdestroy (1),
.BR kinit (1),
.BR krb5.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR krb5envvar (5),
.BR kerberos (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
When reading a file as a service key file, very little error checking is
performed.
