'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kmfcfg 1 "3 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmfcfg \- Key Management Policy and Plugin Configuration Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmfcfg\fR \fIsubcommand\fR [\fIoption\fR .\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kmfcfg
command allows users to configure Key Management Framework
(KMF) policy databases. The KMF policy database (DB) restricts the use of
keys and certificates that are managed through the KMF framework.
.sp
.LP
.B kmfcfg
provides the ability to list, create, modify, delete, import
and export policy definitions either in the system default database file
.B /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml
or a user-defined database file.
.sp
.LP
For plugin configuration,
.B kmfcfg
allows users to display plugin
information, install or uninstall a KMF plugin, and modify the plugin
option.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a new policy into the policy database file.
.sp
The format for the
.B create
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
create [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR] policy=\fIpolicyname\fR
    [ignore-date=true|false]
    [ignore-unknown-eku=true|false]
    [ignore-trust-anchor=true|false]
    [validity-adjusttime=\fIadjusttime\fR]
    [ta-name=trust anchor subject DN]
    [ta-serial=trust anchor serial number]
    [ocsp-responder=\fIURL\fR]
    [ocsp-proxy=\fIURL\fR]
    [ocsp-use-cert-responder=true|false]
    [ocsp-response-lifetime=timelimit]
    [ocsp-ignore-response-sign=true|false]
    [ocsp-responder-cert-name=Issuer DN]
    [ocsp-responder-cert-serial=\fIserial number\fR]
    [crl-basefilename=\fIbasefilename\fR]
    [crl-directory=\fIdirectory\fR]
    [crl-get-crl-uri=true|false]
    [crl-proxy=\fIURL\fR]
    [crl-ignore-crl-sign=true|false]
    [crl-ignore-crl-date=true|false]
    [keyusage=digitalSignature|nonRepudiation
              |keyEncipherment | dataEncipherment |
              keyAgreement |keyCertSign |
              cRLSign | encipherOnly | decipherOnly],[.\|.\|.]
    [ekunames=serverAuth | clientAuth |
             codeSigning | emailProtection |
             ipsecEndSystem | ipsecTunnel |
             ipsecUser | timeStamping |
             OCSPSigning],[.\|.\|.]
    [ekuoids=\fIOID,OID,OID.\|.\|.\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B create
subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcrl-basefilename=\fIfilename\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBcrl-directory=\fIdirectory\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
These two attributes are used to specify the location for CRL files. The
.B crl-basefilename
attribute represents the base filename for a CRL
file. The
.B crl-directory
attribute represents the directory for CRL
files, which defaults to the current directory.
.sp
If the
.B crl-get-crl-uri
attribute is set to
.B true
and the
.B crl-basefilename
is not specified, the
.B basefilename
for the
cached CRL file is the basename of the URI used to fetch the CRL file.
.sp
If the
.B crl-get-crl-uri
attribute is set to
.B false
the
.B crl-basefilename
needs to be specified to indicate an input CRL file.
The setting for
.B crl-get-crl-uri
is
.B false
by default.
.sp
These two attributes only apply to the file-based CRL plugins. The current
file-based CRL plugins are
.B file
and
.B pkcs11
keystores. For the
.B nss
keystore, the CRL location is always the NSS internal database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crl-get-crl-uri=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configure if a CRL file is fetched and cached dynamically as part of the
certificate validation, using the URI information from the certificate's
distribution points extension.
.sp
The default for this attribute is
.BR false .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crl-ignore-crl-date=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B crl-ignore-crl-date
is set to true, the validity time period of
the CRL is not checked.
.sp
The default for this attribute is
.BR false .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crl-ignore-crl-sign=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B crl-ignore-crl-sign
is set to
.BR true ,
the signature of the CRL
is not checked.
.sp
The default for this attribute is
.BR false .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crl-proxy=
.I URL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the proxy server name and port for dynamically retrieving a CRL file
when
.B crl-get-crl-uri
is set to
.BR true .
.sp
The port number is optional. If the port number is not specified, the
default value is
.BR 8080 .
An example
.B crl-proxy
setting might be:
.BR crl-proxy=webcache.sfbay:8080 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbfile=\fIdbfile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The DB file to add the new policy. If not specified, the default is the
system KMF policy database file
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBekuoids=\fIEKUOIDS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma separated list of Extended Key Usage OIDs that are required by the
policy being defined. The OIDs are expressed in
.BR "dot notation" ,
for
example,
.BR 1.2.3.4 .
An example
.B ekuoids
setting might be:
.BR ekuoids=1.2.3.4,9.8.7.6.5 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBekunames=\fIEKUNAMES\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma separated list of Extended Key Usage names that are required by the
policy being defined. The list of values allowed for
.I EKUNAMES
are:
.BR serverAuth ,
.BR clientAuth ,
.BR codeSigning ,
.BR emailProtection ,
.BR ipsecEndSystem ,
.BR ipsecTunnel ,
.BR ipsecUser ,
.BR timeStamping ,
and
.BR OCSPSigning
.sp
The OCSP, CRL, key usage and extended key usage checkings are off by
default. To turn on any one of them, specify one or more attributes for the
particular checking. For example, if the
.B ocsp-responder
attribute is
set, then the OCSP checking is turned on. If the
.B ekuname
attribute or
the
.B ekuoids
attribute is set, then the extended key usage checking is
turned on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ignore-date=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the
.B "Ignore Date"
option for this policy. By default this value is
.BR false .
If
.B true
is specified, the policy ignores the validity
periods defined in the certificates when evaluating their validity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ignore-unknown-eku=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the
.B "Ignore Unknown EKU"
option for this policy. By default this
value is
.BR false .
If
.BR true ,
the policy ignores any unrecognized EKU
values in the Extended Key Usage extension.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ignore-trust-anchor=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the
.B "Ignore Trust Anchor"
option for this policy. By default this
value is
.BR false .
If
.B true
is specified, the policy does not verify
the signature of the subject certificate using trust anchor certificate at
validation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBkeyusage=\fIKUVALUES\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma separated list of key usage values that are required by the policy
being defined. The list of values allowed are:
.BR digitalSignature ,
.BR nonRepudiation ,
.BR keyEncipherment ,
.BR dataEncipherment ,
.BR keyAgreement ,
.BR keyCertSign ,
.BR cRLSign ,
.BR encipherOnly ,
.B decipherOnly
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ocsp-ignore-response-sign=true | false
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this attribute is set to
.BR true ,
the signature of the OCSP response
is not verified. This attribute value is default to
.BR false .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBocsp-proxy=\fIURL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the proxy server name and port for OCSP. The port number is optional.
If the port number is not specified, the default value is 8080. An example
\fBocsp-proxy\fR setting might be: \fBocsp-proxy="webcache.sfbay:8080"\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBocsp-response-lifetime=\fItimelimit\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the \fBfreshness\fR period that a response must be. The \fItimelimit\fR
can be specified by
.IR number-day ,
.IR number-hour ,
.IR number-minute ,
or
.IR number-second .
An example
.B ocsp-response-lifetime
setting might
be:\fBocsp-response-lifetime=6-hour\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBocsp-responder-cert-name=\fIIssuerDN\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBocsp-responder-cert-serial=\fIserialNumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
These two attributes represent the OCSP responder certificate. The
.B ocsp-responder-cert-name
is to specify the issuer name of the
certificate. See the
.B ta-name
option for example. The
.I ocsp-responder-cert-serial
is for the serial number and must be
specified as a hex value, for example,
.BR 0x0102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f .
If an OCSP responder is different
from the issuer of the certificate and if the OCSP response needs to be
verified, an OCSP responder certificate information should be provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBocsp-responder=\fIURL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the OCSP responder URL for use with the OCSP validation method. For
.RB example, " ocsp-responder=http://ocsp.verisign.com/ocsp/status"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBocsp-use-cert-responder=true | fals\fRe\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configure this policy to always use the responder defined in the
certificate itself if possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The policy record to be created.
.I policyname
is required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvalidity-adjusttime=\fIadjusttime\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the adjust time for both ends of validity period for a certificate. The
time can be specified by \fInumber-day, number-hour, number-minute, or
number-second\fR. An example
.B validity-adjusttime
setting might be:
\fBvalidity-adjusttime=6-hour. ta-name="Subject DN"
ta-serial=serialNumber\fR
.sp
These two attributes represent the trust anchor certificate and are used to
find the trust anchor certificate in the keystore. The
.I ta-name
is to
specify the distinguished name of the trust anchor certificate subject name.
For example, \fBta-name="O=Sun Microsystems Inc.,\ OU=Solaris Security
Technologies Group,\ L=Ashburn, ST=VA, C=US, CN=John Smith"\fR The serial
number of the TA certificate. This, along with the Issuer DN, is used to
find the TA certificate in the keystore. The serial number must be specified
as a hex value, for example,
.B 0x0102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e
The trust
anchor attributes need to be set, if the value of \fBignore-trust-anchor\fR
attribute is false.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes any policy matching the indicated policy name. The system default
policy (\fBdefault\fR) cannot be deleted.
.sp
The format for the
.B delete
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
delete [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR] policy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B delete
subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbfile=\fIdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Read policy definitions from the indicated file. If
.I dbfile
is not
specified, , the default is the system KMF policy database file:
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The name of the policy to delete.
.I policyname
is required, if using
the system database.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B export
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exports a policy from one policy database file to another policy database
file.
.sp
The format for the
.B export
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kmfcfg export policy=\fIpolicyname\fR outfile=\fInewdbfile\fR [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B export
subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbfile=\fIdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The DB file where the exported policy is read. If
.I dbfile
is not
specified, the default is the system KMF policy database file:
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoutfile=\fIoutputdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The DB file where the exported policy is stored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The policy record to be exported.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B help
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays help for the
.B kmfcfg
command.
.sp
The format for the
.B help
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
help
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B import
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Imports a policy from one policy database file to another policy database
file.
.sp
The format for the
.B import
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kmfcfg import policy=\fIpolicyname\fR infile=\fIinputdbfile\fR [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B import
subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The policy record to be imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinfile=\fIinputdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The DB file to read the policy from.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbfile=\fIoutdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The DB file to add the new policy. If not specified, the default is the
system KMF policy database file
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Without arguments, lists all policy definitions from the default system
database.
.sp
The format for the
.B list
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
list [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR] [policy=\fIpolicyname\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B list
subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdbfile=\fIdbfile\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Reads policy definitions from the indicated file. If not specified, the
default is the system KMF policy database file
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Only display policy definition for the named policy.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B modify
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modifies any policy matching the indicated name. The system default policy
(\fBdefault\fR) cannot be modified.
.sp
The format for the
.B modify
subcommand is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
modify [dbfile=\fIdbfile\fR] policy=\fIpolicyname\fR
    [ignore-date=true|false]
    [ignore-unknown-eku=true|false]
    [ignore-trust-anchor=true|false]
    [validity-adjusttime=\fIadjusttime\fR]
    [ta-name=trust anchor subject DN]
    [ta-serial=trust anchor serial number]
    [ocsp-responder=\fIURL\fR]
    [ocsp-proxy=\fIURL\fR]
    [ocsp-use-cert-responder=true|false]
    [ocsp-response-lifetime=timelimit]
    [ocsp-ignore-response-sign=true|false]
    [ocsp-responder-cert-name=Issuer DN]
    [ocsp-responder-cert-serial=serial number]
    [ocsp-none=true|false]
    [crl-basefilename=\fIbasefilename\fR]
    [crl-directory=\fIdirectory\fR]
    [crl-get-crl-uri=true|false]
    [crl-proxy=URL]
    [crl-ignore-crl-sign=true|false]
    [crl-ignore-crl-date=true|false]
    [crl-none=true|false]
    [keyusage=digitalSignature| nonRepudiation
              |keyEncipherment | dataEncipherment |
              keyAgreement |keyCertSign |
              cRLSign | encipherOnly | decipherOnly],[.\|.\|.]
    [keyusage-none=true|false]
    [ekunames=serverAuth | clientAuth |
             codeSigning | emailProtection |
             ipsecEndSystem | ipsecTunnel |
             ipsecUser | timeStamping |
             OCSPSigning],[.\|.\|.]
    [ekuoids=OID,OID,OID]
    [eku-none=true|false]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The
.B modify
subcommand supports many of the same options as the
.B create
subcommand. For descriptions of shared options, see the create
subcommand.
.sp
The
.B modify
subcommand supports the following unique options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crl-none=true | false
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
If
.B crl-none
is set to
.BR true ,
CRL checking is turned off. If this
attribute is set to
.BR true ,
other CRL attributes cannot be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdfile=[\fIdbfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The database file to modify a policy. If not specified, the default is the
system KMF policy database file
.BR /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B eku-none=true | false
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
If
.B eku-none
is set to
.BR true ,
extended key usage checking is
turned off. The extended key usage attributes,
.B ekuname
and
.B ekuoids
cannot be set at the same time if
.B eku-none
is set to
.BR true .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B keyusage-none=true | false
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
If
.B keyusage-none
is set to true, key usage checking is turned off.
.sp
The
.B keyusage
attribute cannot be set at the same time if this
attribute is set to
.BR true .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ocsp-none=true | false
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
If
.B ocsp-none
is set to true, OCSP checking is turned off. Any other
OCSP attribute is not set at the same time if this attribute is set to
.BR true .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpolicy=\fIpolicyname\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The name of the policy to modify.
.I policyname
is required.
The\fBdefault\fRpolicy in the system KMF policy database cannot be
modified.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Plugin Subcommands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "install keystore=" keystore_name
\fBmodulepath=\fIpathname\fR\e \fB[option=\fIoption_str\fB]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install a plugin into the system. The
.B modulepath
field specifies the
pathname to a KMF plugin shared library object. If
.I pathname
is not
specified as an absolute pathname, shared library objects are assumed to be
relative to
.BR /lib/security/$ISA/ .
The
.B ISA
token is replaced by an
implementation defined directory name which defines the pathname relative to
the calling program's instruction set architecture.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list plugin
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display KMF plugin information.
.sp
Without the \fBplugin\fRkeyword, \fBkmfcfg list\fR shows the policy
information as described in the
.B SUBCOMMANDS
section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmodify plugin keystore=\fIkeystore_name\fR
\fBoption=\fIoption_str\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the
.B plugin
option. The
.B plugin
option is defined by the
plugin and is interpreted by the plugin specifically, therefore this command
accepts any option string.
.sp
Without the
.B plugin
keyword,
.B "kmfcfg modify"
updates the policy
configuration as described in the
.B SUBCOMMANDS
section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "uninstall keystore=" keystore_name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uninstall the plugin with the
.IR keystore_name .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a New Policy
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a new policy called IPSEC in the system
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ kmfcfg create IPSEC \e
ignore-trust-anchor=true \e
ocsp-use-cert-responder=true \e
keyusage=keyAgreement,keyEncipherment,dataEncipherment \e
ekuname=ipsecTunnel,ipsecUser
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/kmfpolicy.xml
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default system policy database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
