'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kpasswd 1 "30 Jul 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kpasswd \- change a user's Kerberos password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/kpasswd\fR [\fIprincipal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kpasswd
command is used to change a Kerberos principal's
password.
.B kpasswd
prompts for the current Kerberos password, which is
used to obtain a
.B changepw
ticket from the
.B KDC
for the user's
Kerberos realm. If
.B kpasswd
successfully obtains the
.BR changepw
ticket, the user is prompted twice for the new password, and the password is
changed.
.sp
.LP
If the principal is governed by a policy that specifies the length and/or
number of character classes required in the new password, the new password
must conform to the policy. (The five character classes are lower case,
upper case, numbers, punctuation, and all other characters.)
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I principal
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Change the password for the Kerberos principal
.IR principal .
Otherwise,
the principal is derived from the identity of the user invoking the
.B kpasswd
command.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/tmp/ovsec_adm.\fIxxxxxx\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Temporary credentials cache for the lifetime of the password changing
operation. (\fIxxxxxx\fR is a random string.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kerberos (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
If
.B kpasswd
is suspended, the
.B changepw
tickets may not be
destroyed.
