'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH krb5-config 1 "24 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
krb5-config \- link against the installed Kerberos libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkrb5-config\fR
     [\fB--all\fR | \fB--cflags\fR | \fB--exec-prefix\fR | \fB--help\fR | \fB--libs\fR \fIlibrary\fR |
      \fB--prefix\fR | \fB--vendor\fR | \fB--version\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B krb5-config
identifies and displays the special flags that are needed
to compile and link programs against the installed Kerberos libraries.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --all
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the version, vendor, prefix and
.BR exec-prefix .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --cflags
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the compiler flags with which Kerberos was built.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --exec-prefix
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the
.B exec-prefix
with which Kerberos was built.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --help
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the usage message.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --libs
.I library
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays compiler options required to link with
.IR library .
.sp
The following
.I library
values are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B krb5
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Kerberos 5 application
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --prefix
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the prefix with which Kerberos was built.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --vendor
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the vendor of the installed Kerberos implementation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --version
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Displays the version of the installed Kerberos implementation.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B --cflags
Option
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the C compiler flags needed to use
.BR libkrb5 (3LIB):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% krb5-config --cflags
-I/usr/include/kerberosv5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Using the\fB--libs\fR Option
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the C compiler options needed to link against
.BR libkrb5 (3LIB):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% krb5-config --libs
-L/usr/lib -R/usr/lib -lkrb5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libgss (3LIB),
.BR libkrb5 (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
