'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the
.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For copying and distribution
.\" information, please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ktutil 1 "16 Nov 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ktutil \- Kerberos keytab maintenance utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ktutil\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ktutil
command is an interactive command-line interface utility
for managing  the keylist in keytab files. You must read in a keytab's
keylist before you can manage it. Also, the user running the \fBktutil\fR
command must have read/write permissions on the keytab. For example, if a
keytab is owned by root, which it typically is,
.B ktutil
must be run as
root to have the appropriate permissions.
.SH COMMANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clear_list
.ad
.br
.na
.B clear
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Clears the current keylist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B read_kt
.I file
.ad
.br
.na
.B rkt
.I file
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Reads a keytab into the current keylist. You must specify a keytab
.I file
to read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B write_kt
.I file
.ad
.br
.na
.B wkt
.I file
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Writes the current keylist to a keytab
.IR file .
You must specify a
keytab file to write. If the keytab file already exists, the current keylist
is appended to the existing keytab file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B add_entry
.I number
.ad
.br
.na
.B addent
.I number
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Adds an entry to the current keylist. Specify the entry by the keylist slot
number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delete_entry
.I number
.ad
.br
.na
.B delent
.I number
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Deletes an entry from the current keylist. Specify the entry by the keylist
slot number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list
.ad
.br
.na
.B l
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Lists the current keylist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list_request
.ad
.br
.na
.B lr
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Lists available requests (commands).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.br
.na
.B exit
.ad
.br
.na
.B q
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Exits utility.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Deleting a principal from a file
.sp
.LP
The following example deletes the
.B host/denver@ACME.com
principal from
the
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
file. Notice that if you want to delete an
entry from an existing keytab, you must first write the keylist to a
temporary keytab and then overwrite the existing keytab with the temporary
keytab. This is because the
.B wkt
command actually appends the current
keylist to an existing keytab, so you can't use it to overwrite a keytab.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fB/usr/krb5/bin/ktutil\fR
    ktutil: rkt /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
    ktutil: list
slot KVNO Principal
---- ---- ---------------------------------------
   1    8 host/vail@ACME.COM
   2    5 host/denver@ACME.COM
    ktutil:delent 2
    ktutil:l
slot KVNO Principal
---- ---- --------------------------------------
   1    8 host/vail@ACME.COM
    ktutil:wkt /tmp/krb5.keytab
    ktutil:q
example# \fBmv /tmp/krb5.keytab /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.keytab
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
keytab file for Kerberos clients
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command arguments are Evolving. The command output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kadmin (1M),
.BR k5srvutil (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kerberos (5)
