'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH last 1 "24 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
last \- display login and logout information about users and terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlast\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR | \fB-number\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR]
     [\fIname\fR | \fItty\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B last
command looks in the
.B /var/adm/wtmpx
file, which
records all logins and logouts, for information about a user, a terminal, or
any group of users and terminals. Arguments specify names of users or
terminals of interest. If multiple arguments are given, the information
applicable to any of the arguments is printed. For example, \fBlast\fR
\fBroot console\fR lists all of root's sessions, as well as all
sessions on the console terminal.
.B last
displays the sessions of the
specified users and terminals, most recent first, indicating the times at
which the session began, the duration of the session, and the terminal on
which the session took place.
.B last
also indicates whether the session
is continuing or was cut short by a reboot.
.sp
.LP
The pseudo-user reboot logs in when the system is shutdown and when it
reboots. Thus,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
last reboot
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
gives an approximate record of when the operating system instance was
shutdown and when it rebooted. This can be used to calculate the
availability of the operating system over time.
.sp
.LP
\fBlast\fR with no arguments displays a record of all logins and logouts,
in reverse order.
.sp
.LP
If
.B last
is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has
progressed in
.BR /var/adm/wtmpx .
If interrupted with a quit signal
(generated by a CTRL\(mi\e), \fBlast\fR indicates how far the search has
progressed, and then continues the search.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Displays the hostname in the last column.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI filename\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Uses \fIfilename\fR as the name of the accounting file instead of
.BR /var/adm/wtmpx .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fI number\||\|\fB-\fInumber\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Limits the number of entries displayed to that specified by
.IR number .
These options are identical; the \fB-\fInumber\fR option is provided as a
transition tool only and is removed in future releases.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
Date and time format is based on locale specified by the
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
or
.B LANG
environments, in that order of priority.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/wtmpx
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
accounting file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR utmpx (4),
.BR attributes (5)
