'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldaplist 1 "7 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ldaplist \- search and list naming information from an LDAP directory using
the configured profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ldaplist\fR [\fB-dlv\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fILDAP_server\fR[\fB:\fIserverPort\fR] [\fB-M\fR \fIdomainName\fR]
   [\fB-N\fR \fIprofileName\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIauthenticationMethod\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIcertifPath\fR]
   [\fB-D\fR \fIbindDN\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIbindPassword\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fIpasswdFile\fR]]
   [\fIdatabase\fR [\fIkey\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ldaplist\fR \fB-g\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ldaplist\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -h
.RB \fILDAP_server\fB[:\fIserverPort ]
option is
specified,
.B ldaplist
establishes a connection to the server pointed to
by the option to obtain a
.I DUAProfile
specified by the
.B -N
option.
Then
.B ldaplist
lists the information from the directory described by
the configuration obtained.
.sp
.LP
By default (if the
.B -h
.RB \fILDAP_server\fB[:\fIserverPort ]
option is not specified),
the utility searches for and lists the naming information from the LDAP
directory service defined in the LDAP configuration files generated
.RB by ldapclient (1M)
during the client initialization phase. To use the
utility in the default mode, the Solaris LDAP client must be set up in
advance.
.sp
.LP
The database is either a container name or a database name as defined in
.BR nsswitch.conf (4).
A container is a non-leaf entry in the Directory
Information Tree (DIT) that contains naming service information. The
container name is the LDAP Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) of the
container relative to the
.B defaultSearchBase
as defined in the
configuration files. For example, for a container named
.BR ou=people ,
the
database name is the database specified in
.BR nsswitch.conf .
This
database is mapped to a container, for example,
.B passwd
maps to
.BR ou=people .
If an invalid database is specified, it is mapped to a
generic container, for example,
.BR nisMapName=name ).
.sp
.LP
The key is the attribute value to be searched in the database. You can
specify more than one key to be searched in the same database. The key can
.RI "be specified in either of two forms: " attribute = value " or"
.IR value .
In the first case,
.B ldaplist
passes the search key to the
server. In the latter case, an attribute is assigned depending on how the
database is specified. If the database is a container name, then the
"\fBcn\fR" attribute type is used. If the database is a valid database name
as defined in the
.BR nsswitch.conf ,
then a predefined attribute type is
used (see table below). If the database is an invalid database name, then
.B cn
is used as the attribute type.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldaplist
utility relies on the Schema defined in the
.IR "RFC 2307bis" ,
currently an IETF draft. The data stored on the LDAP server must
be stored based on this Schema, unless the profile contains schema mapping
definitions. For more information on schema mapping see
.BR ldapclient (1M).
The following table lists the default mapping from the
database names to the container, the LDAP object class, and the attribute
type used if not defined in the key.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Database     Object Class     Attribute Type    Container

aliases      mailGroup        cn                ou=Aliases
automount    nisObject        cn                automountMapName=auto_*
bootparams   bootableDevice   cn                ou=Ethers
ethers       ieee802Device    cn                ou=Ethers
group        posixgroup       cn                ou=Group
hosts        ipHost           cn                ou=Hosts
ipnodes      ipHost           cn                ou=Hosts
netgroup     ipNetgroup       cn                ou=Netgroup
netmasks     ipNetwork        ipnetworknumber   ou=Networks
networks     ipNetwork        ipnetworknumber   ou=Networks
passwd       posixAccount     uid               ou=People
protocols    ipProtocol       cn                ou=Protocols
publickey    nisKeyObject     uidnumber         ou=People
                              cn                ou=Hosts
rpc          oncRpc           cn                ou=Rpc
services     ipService        cn                ou=Services
printers     printerService   printer-uri       ou=printers
auth_attr    SolarisAuthAttr  nameT             ou=SolarisAuthAttr
prof_attr    SolarisProfAttr  nameT             ou=SolarisProfAttr
exec_attr    SolarisExecAttr  nameT             ou=SolarisProfAttr
user_attr    SolarisUserAttr  uidT              ou=people
audit_user   SolarisAuditUser uidT              ou=people
projects     SolarisProject   SolarisProjectID  ou=projects
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following databases are available only if the system is configured with
Trusted Extensions:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
tnrhtp      ipTnetTemplate   ipTnetTemplateName ou=ipTnet
tnrhdb      ipTnetHost       ipTnetNumber       ou=ipTnet
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For the
.B automount
database,
.BR auto_* ,
in the container column,
represents
.BR auto_home ,
.BR auto_direct ,
\&.\|.\|.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For the
.B publickey
database, if the key starts with a digit, it is
interpreted as an uid number. If the key starts with a non-digit, it is
interpreted as a host name.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldaplist
utility supports substring search by using the wildcard
"\fB*\fR" in the key. For example, "\fBmy*\fR" matches any strings that
starts with "\fBmy\fR". In some shell environments, keys containing the
wildcard might need to be quoted.
.sp
.LP
If the key is not specified, all the containers in the current search
.B baseDN
is listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I authenticationMethod
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the authentication method. The default value is what has been
configured in the profile. The supported authentication methods are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
simple
sasl/CRAM-MD5
sasl/DIGEST-MD5
tls:simple
tls:sasl/CRAM-MD5
tls:sasl/DIGEST-MD5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Selecting
.B simple
causes passwords to be sent over the network in
clear text. Its use is strongly discouraged.
.sp
Additionally, if the client is configured with a profile which uses no
authentication, that is, either the
.I credentialLevel
attribute is set
to
.B anonymous
or
.I authenticationMethod
is set to
.BR none ,
the
user must use this option to provide an authentication method.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the attributes for the specified database, rather than the entries.
By default, the entries are listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I bindDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an entry which has read permission to the requested database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the database mapping.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the database mapping.
.sp
This option has been deprecated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I LDAP_server[:serverPort]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an address (or a name) and a port of the LDAP server from which
the entries are read. The current naming service specified in the
.B nsswitch.conf
file is used. The default value for the port is
.BR 389 ,
unless when TLS is specified in the authentication method. In
this case, the default LDAP server port number is
.BR 636 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.I passwdFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file containing the password for the bind DN or the password
for the SSL client's key database. To protect the password, use this option
in scripts and place the password in a secure file.
.sp
This option is mutually exclusive of the
.B -w
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all the attributes for each entry matching the search criteria. By
default,
.B ldaplist
lists only the Distinguished Name of the entries
found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.I domainName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the name of a domain served by the specified server. If this
option is not specified, the default domain name is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -N
.I profileName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a DUAProfile name. A profile with such a name is supposed to
exist on the server specified by
.B -H
option. The default value is
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I certifPath
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the certificate path to the location of the certificate database.
The value is the path where security database files reside. This is used for
TLS support, which is specified in the
.I authenticationMethod
and
.I serviceAuthenticationMethod
attributes. The default is
.BR /var/ldap .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I bindPassword
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password to be used for authenticating the
.IR bindDN .
If this parameter
is missing, the command prompts for a password. NULL passwords are not
supported in LDAP.
.sp
When you use
.B -w
.I bind_password
to specify the password to be
used for authentication, the password is visible to other users of the
system by means of the
.B ps
command, in script files or in shell
history.
.sp
If the value of
.B -
is supplied as a password, the command prompts for
a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets verbose mode. The
.B ldaplist
utility also prints the filter used
to search for the entry. The filter is prefixed with "\fB+++\fR".
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Listing All Entries in the Hosts Database
.sp
.LP
The following example lists all entries in the
.B hosts
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist hosts\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing All Entries in a Non-Standard Database
.B ou=new
.sp
.LP
The following example lists all entries in a non-standard database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist ou=new\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Finding
.B user1
in the
.B passwd
Database
.sp
.LP
The following example finds
.B user1
in the
.B passwd
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist passwd user1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Finding the Entry With Service Port of
.B 4045
in the
.B services
Database
.sp
.LP
The following example finds the entry with the service port of
.BR 4045
in the
.B services
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist services ipServicePort=4045\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Finding All Users With Username Starting with
.B new
in
the
.B passwd
Database
.sp
.LP
The following example finds all users with the username starting with
.B new
in the
.B passwd
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist passwd 'new*'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Listing the Attributes for the
.B hosts
Database
.sp
.LP
The following example lists the attributes for the
.B hosts
database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist -d hosts\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Finding
.B user1
in the
.B passwd
Database
.sp
.LP
The following example finds
.B user1
in the
.B passwd
database. An
LDAP server is specified explicitly.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBldaplist -H 10.10.10.10:3890 \e
            -M another.domain.name -N special_duaprofile \e
            -D "cn=directory manager" -w secret \e
            user1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successfully matched some entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successfully searched the table and no matches were found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred. An error message is output.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_file
.ad
.br
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_cred
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Files that contain the LDAP configuration of the client. Do not manually
modify these files. Their content is not guaranteed to be human readable. To
update these files, use
.BR ldapclient (1M)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (1),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR idsconfig (1M),
.BR ldap_cachemgr (1M),
.BR ldapaddent (1M),
.BR ldapclient (1M),
.BR suninstall (1M),
.BR resolv.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.I RFC 2307bis
is an IETF informational document in draft stage that
defines an approach for using
.B LDAP
as a naming service.
.sp
.LP
Currently StartTLS is not supported by
.BR libldap.so.5 ,
therefore the
port number provided refers to the port used during a TLS open, versus the
port used as part of a StartTLS sequence. For example, \fB-h foo:1000 -a tls:simple\fR, refers to a raw TLS open on host
.BR foo ,
port 1000, not a
open, StartTLS sequence on an unsecured port 1000. If port 1000 is unsecured
the connection is not made.
