'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap 1 "28 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ldap \- LDAP as a naming repository
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
LDAP refers to Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, which is an industry
standard for accessing directory servers. By initializing the client using
.BR ldapclient (1M)
and using the keyword
.B ldap
in the name service
switch file,
.BR /etc/nsswitch.conf ,
Solaris clients can obtain naming
information from an LDAP server. Information such as usernames, hostnames,
and passwords are stored on the LDAP server in a Directory Information Tree
or
.BR DIT .
The
.B DIT
consists of entries which in turn are composed
of attributes. Each attribute has a type and one or more values.
.sp
.LP
Solaris LDAP clients use the LDAP v3 protocol to access naming information
from LDAP servers. The LDAP server must support the object classes and
attributes defined in
.IR "RFC2307bis (draft)" ,
which maps the naming
service model on to LDAP. As an alternate to using the schema defined in
.IR "RFC2307bis (draft)" ,
the system can be configured to use other schema
sets and the schema mapping feature is configured to map between the two.
Refer to the \fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS, and LDAP)\fR for more details.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR ldapclient "(1M) utility can make a Solaris machine an LDAP client"
by setting up the appropriate directories, files, and configuration
information. The LDAP client caches this configuration information in local
cache files. This configuration information is accessed through the
.BR ldap_cachemgr (1M)
daemon. This daemon also refreshes the information
in the configuration files from the LDAP server, providing better
performance and security. The
.B ldap_cachemgr
must run at all times for
the proper operation of the naming services.
.sp
.LP
There are two types of configuration information, the information available
through a profile, and the information configured per client. The profile
contains all the information as to how the client accesses the directory.
The credential information for proxy user is configured on a per client
basis and is not downloaded through the profile.
.sp
.LP
The profile contains server-specific parameters that are required by all
clients to locate the servers for the desired LDAP domain. This information
could be the server's IP address and the search base Distinguished Name
(DN), for instance. It is configured on the client from the default profile
during client initialization and is periodically updated by the
.B ldap_cachemgr
daemon when the expiration time has elapsed.
.sp
.LP
Client profiles can be stored on the LDAP server and can be used by the
.B ldapclient
utility to initialize an LDAP client. Using the client
profile is the easiest way to configure a client machine. See
.BR ldapclient (1M).
.sp
.LP
Credential information includes client-specific parameters that are used by
a client. This information could be the Bind DN (LDAP "login" name) of the
client and the password. If these parameters are required, they are manually
defined during the initialization through
.BR ldapclient (1M).
.sp
.LP
The naming information is stored in containers on the LDAP server. A
container is a non-leaf entry in the DIT that contains naming service
information. Containers are similar to maps in NIS and tables in NIS+. A
default mapping between the NIS databases and the containers in LDAP is
presented below. The location of these containers as well as their names can
be overridden through the use of
.BR serviceSearchDescriptors .
For more
information, see
.BR ldapclient (1M).
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(1.83i) |cw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i)
.
DatabaseObject ClassContainer
_
passwdposixAccountou=people,dc=.\|.\|.
shadowAccount
_
groupposixGroupou=Group,dc=.\|.\|.
_
servicesipServiceou=Services,dc=.\|.\|.
_
protocolsipProtocolou=Protocols,dc=.\|.\|.
_
rpconcRpcou=Rpc,dc=.\|.\|.
_
hostsipHostou=Hosts,dc=.\|.\|.
ipnodesipHostou=Hosts,dc=.\|.\|.
_
ethersieee802Deviceou=Ethers,dc=.\|.\|.
_
bootparamsbootableDeviceou=Ethers,dc=.\|.\|.
_
networksipNetworkou=Networks,dc=.\|.\|.
netmasksipNetwork ou=Networks,dc=.\|.\|.
_
netgroupnisNetgroupou=Netgroup,dc=.\|.\|.
_
aliasesmailGroupou=Aliases,dc=.\|.\|.
_
publickeynisKeyObject 
_
genericnisObjectnisMapName=.\|.\|.,dc=.\|.\|.
_
printersprinterServiceou=Printers,dc=.\|.\|.
_
auth_attrSolarisAuthAttrou=SolarisAuthAttr,dc=.\|.\|.
_
prof_attrSolarisProfAttrou=SolarisProfAttr,dc=.\|.\|.
_
exec_attrSolarisExecAttrou=SolarisProfAttr,dc=.\|.\|.
_
user_attrSolarisUserAttrou=people,dc=.\|.\|.
_
audit_userSolarisAuditUserou=people,dc=.\|.\|.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The security model for clients is defined by a combination of the
credential level to be used, the authentication method, and the PAM modules
to be used. The credential level defines what credentials the client should
use to authenticate to the directory server, and the authentication method
defines the method of choice. Both these can be set with multiple values.
The Solaris LDAP supports the following values for credential level :
.br
.in +2
.B anonymous
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B proxy
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B self
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The Solaris LDAP supports the following values for authentication method:
.br
.in +2
.B none
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B simple
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/CRAM-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/DIGEST-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B sasl/GSSAPI
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:simple
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:sasl/CRAM-MD5
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B tls:sasl/DIGEST-MD5
.in -2
.sp
.LP
When the credential level is configured as
.BR self ,
DNS must be
configured and the authentication method must be
.BR sasl/GSSAPI .
The
.B hosts
and
.B ipnodes
in
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
must be configured
to use DNS, for example
.B "hosts: dns files"
and
.BR "ipnodes: dns files" .

.sp
.LP
.B sasl/GSSAPI
automatically uses
.B GSSAPI
confidentiality and
integrity options, if they are configured on the directory server.
.sp
.LP
The credential level of
.B self
enables per-user naming service lookups,
or lookups that use the
.B GSSAPI
credentials of the user when connecting
to the directory server. Currently the only
.B GSSAPI
mechanism supported
in this model is Kerberos V5. Kerberos must be configured before you can use
this credential level. See
.BR kerberos (5)
for details.
.sp
.LP
More protection can be provided by means of access control, allowing the
server to grant access for certain containers or entries. Access control is
specified by Access Control Lists (ACLs) that are defined and stored in the
LDAP server. The Access Control Lists on the LDAP server are called Access
Control Instructions (ACIs) by the the SunOne Directory Server. Each ACL or
ACI specifies one or more directory objects, for example, the
.B cn
attribute in a specific container, one or more clients to whom you grant or
deny access, and one or more access rights that determine what the clients
can do to or with the objects. Clients can be users or applications. Access
rights can be specified as read and write, for example. Refer to the
\fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS, and
LDAP)\fR regarding the restrictions on ACLs and ACIs when using LDAP as a
naming repository.
.sp
.LP
A sample
.BR nsswitch.conf (4)
file called
.B nsswitch.ldap
is provided
in the
.B /etc
directory. This is copied to
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
by
the
.BR ldapclient (1M)
utility. This file uses LDAP as a repository for
the different databases in the
.B nsswitch.conf
file.
.sp
.LP
The following is a list of the user commands related to LDAP:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR idsconfig (1M)
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prepares a SunOne Directory Server to be ready to support Solaris LDAP
clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ldapaddent (1M)
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Creates LDAP entries from corresponding
.B /etc
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ldapclient (1M)
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Initializes LDAP clients, or generates a configuration profile to be stored
in the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ldaplist (1)
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Lists the contents of the LDAP naming space.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_cred
.ad
.br
.na
.B /var/ldap/ldap_client_file
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Files that contain the LDAP configuration of the client. Do not manually
modify these files. Their content is not guaranteed to be human readable.
Use
.BR ldapclient "(1M) to update them."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Configuration file for the name-service switch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nsswitch.ldap
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Sample configuration file for the name-service switch configured with LDAP
and files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/pam.conf
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
PAM framework configuration file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldaplist (1),
.BR idsconfig (1M),
.BR ldap_cachemgr (1M),
.BR ldapaddent (1M),
.BR ldapclient (1M),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR pam.conf (4),
\fBkerberos\fR(5)\fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_ldap (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_session (5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS,
and LDAP)\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.BR pam_unix (5)
module is no longer supported. Similar functionality
is provided by
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
and\fBpam_unix_session\fR(5).
