'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldapmodrdn 1 "15 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ldapmodrdn \- ldap modify entry RDN tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBldapmodrdn\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-E\fR] [\fB-H\fR] [\fB-?\fR] [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-R\fR]
     [\fB-Z\fR] [\fB-V\fR \fIversion\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdebuglevel\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIbindDN\fR]
     [\fB-w\fR \fIpasswd\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIldaphost\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIlocale\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fIfilename\fR]
     [\fB-J\fR [:\fIcriticality\fR]] [\fB-k\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIcertificate\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR \fIhopLimit\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIpassword\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIldapport\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIattributename\fR=\fIvalue\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-Y\fR \fIproxyDN\fR]
     [\fIdn\fR \fIrdn\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ldapmodrdn
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies
the RDN of entries. The entry information is read from standard input, from
.B file
through the use of the
.B -f
option, or from the command-line
pair
.I dn
and
.IR rdn .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Continuous operation mode. Errors are reported, but ldapmodify continues
with modifications. The default is to exit after reporting an error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -D " bindDN"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the distinguished name
.I binddn
to bind to the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " debuglevel"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the LDAP debugging level. Useful values of
.I debuglevel
for
.B ldapmodrdn
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Trace
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Packets
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Arguments
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Filters
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 128
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Access control
.RE

To request more than one category of debugging information, add the masks.
For example, to request trace and filter information, specify a
.I debuglevel
of 33.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ask server to expose (report) bind identity by means of authentication
response control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -f " file"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read the entry modification information from
.B file
instead of from
standard input or the command-line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the usage help text that briefly describes all options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the usage help text that briefly describes all options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I  ldaphost
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate host on which the LDAP server is running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I locale
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the character set to use for the
.BR -f " "
.I LDIFfile
or
standard input. The default is the character set specified in the
.B LANG
environment variable. You might choose to use this option to perform the
conversion from the specified character set to UTF8, thus overriding the
.B LANG
setting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -J
[:\fIcriticality\fR[:\fIvalue\fR|::\fIb64value\fR|\fIb64value\fR|:\fIfileurl\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Criticality is a boolean value (default is
.BR false ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.I filename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file containing the password for the bind DN or the password for
the SSL client's key database. To protect the password, use this option in
scripts and place the password in a secure file. This option is mutually
exclusive of the
.B -w
and
.B -W
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.I path
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the path to a directory containing conversion routines. These
routines are used if you want to specify a locale that is not supported by
default by your directory server. This is for NLS support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Manage smart referrals. When they are the target of the operation, modify
the entry containing the referral instead of the entry obtained by following
the referral.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Previews modifications, but makes no changes to entries. Useful in
conjunction with
.B -v
and
.B -d
for debugging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -N
.I certificate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the certificate name to use for certificate-based client
authentication. For example: \fB-N "Directory-Cert"\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show what would be done, but do not actually change entries. Useful in
conjunction with
.B -v
for debugging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIattributename\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For SASL mechanisms and other options such as security properties, mode of
operation, authorization ID, authentication ID, and so forth.
.sp
The different attribute names and their values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsecProp\fR=\fI"number"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
For defining SASL security properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrealm\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies SASL realm (default is
.BR realm=none ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBauthzid\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify the authorization ID name for SASL bind.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBauthid\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmech\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies the various SASL mechanisms.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -O
.I hopLimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the maximum number of referral hops to follow while finding an
entry to modify. By default, there is no limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I path
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the path and filename of the client's certificate database. For
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P /home/uid/.netscape/cert7.db
.fi
.in -2

When using the command on the same host as the directory server, you can
use the server's own certificate database. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P \fIinstallDir\fR/lapd-serverID/alias/cert7.db
.fi
.in -2

Use the
.B -P
option alone to specify server authentication only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " ldapport"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate TCP port where the secure LAPD server is listening.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not automatically follow referrals returned while searching.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove old RDN values from the entry. By default, old values are kept.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.I version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the LDAP protocol version number to be used for the delete
operation, either 2 or 3. LDAP v3 is the default. Specify LDAP v2 when
connecting to servers that do not support v3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use verbose mode, with diagnostics written to standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -W
.I password
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the password for the client's key database given in the
.B -P
option. This option is required for certificate-based client authentication.
Specifying
.I password
on the command line has security issues because
the password can be seen by others on the system by means of the
.BR ps
command. Use the
.B -j
instead to specify the password from the file.
This option is mutually exclusive of
.BR -j .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -w " passwd"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I passwd
as the password for authentication to the directory. When
you use
.BI -w " passwd"
to specify the password to be used for
authentication, the password is visible to other users of the system by
means of the
.B ps
command, in script files or in shell history. If you
use the
.B ldapmodrdn
command without this option, the command will
prompt for the password and read it from standard in. When used without the
.B -w
option, the password will not be visible to other users.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Y
.I proxyid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the proxy DN (proxied authorization id) to use for the modify
operation, usually in double quotes ("") for the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify that SSL be used to provide certificate-based client
authentication. This option requires the
.B -N
and SSL password and any
other of the SSL options needed to identify the certificate and the key
database.
.RE

.SS "Input Format"
.sp
.LP
If the command-line arguments
.I dn
and
.I rdn
.RI "are given," " rdn"
replaces the RDN of the entry specified by the DN,
.IR dn .
.sp
.LP
.RB "Otherwise, the contents of " file " (or standard input if the " - 
.B f
option is not specified) must consist of one or more pair of
lines:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    Distinguished Name (DN)
    Relative Distinguished Name (RDN)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Use one or more blank lines to separate each DN/RDN pair.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The file
.B /tmp/entrymods
contains:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cn=Modify Me, o=XYZ, c=US
cn=The New Me
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ldapmodify -r -f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
changes the RDN of the "Modify Me" entry from "Modify Me" to "The New Me"
and the old cn, "Modify Me" is removed.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
Stability LevelEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Exit status is
.B 0
if no errors occur. Errors result in a non-zero exit
status and a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
