'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldapsearch 1 "6 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ldapsearch \- ldap search tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBldapsearch\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-A\fR] [\fB-B\fR] [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-H\fR]
     [\fB-?\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-T\fR] [\fB-B\fR] [\fB-E\fR] [\fB-J\fR] [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-Z\fR] [\fB-r\fR]
     [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdebuglevel\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIsep\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIbindDN\fR]
     [\fB-j\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-V\fR \fIversion\fR] [\fB-Y\fR \fIproxyDN\fR] [\fB-O\fR \fIhopLimit\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR \fIlocale\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-S\fR [\fB-\fR] \fIattribute\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIpattern\fR]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIauthzid\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIcertificate\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIpasswd\fR]
     [\fB-h\fR \fIldaphost\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIldapport\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIattributename\fR=\fIvalue\fR]
     [\fB-b\fR \fIsearchbase\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIscope\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIderef\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fItimelimit\fR]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIsizelimit\fR] \fIfilter\fR [\fIattrs\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldapsearch
utility opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds,
and performs a search using the filter
.IR filter .
.sp
.LP
If
.B ldapsearch
finds one or more entries, the attributes specified by
.I attrs
are retrieved and the entries and values are printed to standard
output. If no
.I attrs
are listed, all attributes are returned.
.SS "Output Format"
.sp
.LP
If one or more entries are found, each entry is written to standard output
in the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dn: Distinguished Name (DN)
        attributename: value
        attributename: value
        attributename: value
\&...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Multiple entries are separated with a single blank line. If the
.B -F
option is used to specify a different separator character, this character is
used instead of the
.B :
character. If the
.B -t
option is used, the
name of a temporary file is returned in place of the actual value. If the
.B
-A \c
option is given, only the "attributename" is returned and not the
attribute value.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieve attributes only (no values). This is useful when you just want to
see whether an attribute is present in an entry and are not interested in
the specific value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I deref
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify how aliases dereferencing is done. The possible values for
.I deref
are
.BR never ,
.BR always ,
.BR search ,
or
.B find
to
specify respectively that aliases are never dereferenced, always
dereferenced, dereferenced when searching, or dereferenced only when finding
the base object for the search. The default is to never dereference
aliases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -B
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display non-ASCII values and use the old non-LDIF format. This option
disables the default
.B -L
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I searchbase
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I searchbase
as the starting point for the search instead of the
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I pattern
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Persistent search. Perform a search that keeps the connection open and
displays results whenever entries matching the scope and filter of the
search are added, modified, or removed. With this option, the
.B ldapsearch
tool runs indefinitely; you must type Control-c to stop it.
The pattern has the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ps:changeType[:changesOnly[:entryChangeControls]]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I authzid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the
.B getEffectiveRights
control
.IR authzid .
For
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dn:uid=bjensen,dc=example,dc=com
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I bindDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the distinguished name
.I bindDN
to bind to the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I debuglevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the
.B LDAP
debugging level. Useful levels of debugging for
.B ldapsearch
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Trace
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Packets
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Arguments
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Filters
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 128
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Access control
.RE

To request more than one category of debugging information, add the masks.
For example, to request trace and filter information, specify a debuglevel
of 33.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ask server to expose (report) bind identity by means of authentication
response control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Minimize base-64 encoding of values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I sep
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I sep
as the field separator between attribute names and values. If
this option has been specified, the
.B -L
option is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read a series of lines from
.IR file ,
performing one
.B LDAP
search
for each line. In this case, the
.I filter
given on the command line is
treated as a pattern where the first occurrence of
.B %s
is replaced with
a line from
.IR file .
If
.I file
is a single
.I -
character, then
the lines are read from standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -G
.I pattern
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Virtual list view. Retrieve only a portion of all results, as determined by
the index or value of the search target and the number of entries to be
returned before and after the target. This option always requires the
.B -S
and
.B -x
options to specify the sorting order on the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the usage help text that briefly describes all options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the usage help text that briefly describes all options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I ldaphost
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate host on which the secure LDAP server is running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I locale
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the character set to use for command-line input. The default is the
character set specified in the
.B LANG
environment variable. You might
want to use this option to perform the conversion from the specified
character set to UTF8, thus overriding the
.B LANG
setting. Using this
argument, you can input the bind DN, base DN, and the search filter pattern
in the specified character set. The
.B ldapsearch
tool converts the input
from these arguments before it processes the search request. For example,
.B -i no
indicates that the bind DN, base DN, and search filter are
provided in Norwegian. This argument only affects the command-line input. If
you specify a file containing a search filter (with the
.B -f
option),
.B ldapsearch
does not convert the data in the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.I filename
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file containing the password for the bind DN or the password for
the SSL client's key database. To protect the password, use this option in
scripts and place the password in a secure file. This option is mutually
exclusive of the
.B -w
and
.B -W
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -J
[:\fIcriticality\fR[:\fIvalue\fR|::\fIb64value\fR|\fIb64value\fR|:\fIfileurl\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Criticality is a boolean value (default is
.BR false ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.I path
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the path to a directory containing conversion routines. These
routines are used if you want to specify a locale that is not supported by
default by your directory server. This is for NLS support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 Display search results in LDIF format. This option also turns on the
.B -B
option. This behavior is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I timelimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Wait at most
.I timelimit
seconds for a search to complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Manage smart referrals. When they are the target of the operation, search
the entry containing the referral instead of the entry obtained by following
the referral.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -N
.I certificate
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the certificate name to use for certificate-based client
authentication. For example: \fB-N "Directory-Cert"\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show what would be done, but do not actually perform the search. Useful in
conjunction with
.B -v
and
.B -d
for debugging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -O
.I hopLimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the maximum number of referral hops to follow while finding an
entry to modify. By default, there is no limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIattributename\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For SASL mechanisms and other options such as security properties, mode of
operation, authorization ID, authentication ID, and so forth.
.sp
The different attribute names and their values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsecProp\fR=\fI"number"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
For defining SASL security properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrealm\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies SASL realm (default is
.BR realm=none ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBauthzid\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify the authorization ID name for SASL bind.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBauthid\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmech\fR=\fI"value"\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies the various SASL mechanisms.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I path
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the path and filename of the client's certificate database. For
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P /home/uid/.netscape/cert7.db
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When using the command on the same host as the directory server, you can
use the server's own certificate database. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P \fIinstallDir\fR/lapd-serverID/alias/cert7.db
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Use the
.B -P
option alone to specify server authentication only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I ldapport
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate TCP port where the secure LAPD server is listening.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not automatically follow referrals returned while searching.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the output of the
.B ldapsearch
command in the old format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
[-]\fIattribute\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an attribute for sorting the entries returned by the search. The
sort criteria is alphabetical on the attribute's value or reverse
alphabetical with the form
.BR -attribute .
You can give multiple
.BR -S
options to refine the sorting, For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-S sn -S \fIgivenname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

By default, the entries are not sorted. Use the
.B -x
option to perform
server-side sorting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I scope
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the scope of the search. The possible values of
.I scope
are
.BR base ,
.BR one ,
or
.B sub
to specify respectively a base object,
one-level, or subtree search. The default is
.BR sub .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Format the output of search results so that no line breaks are used within
individual attribute values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write retrieved values to a set of temporary files. This is useful for
dealing with non-ASCII values such as jpegPhoto or audio.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
URL format (valid only with the
.B -t
option). When using temporary file
output, the standard output of the tool includes the URL of the file instead
of the attributes value. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
jpegPhoto:< file:/tmp/ldapsearch-jpegPhoto-YzaOMh
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include the user-friendly form of the Distinguished Name (DN) in the
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.I version
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the LDAP protocol version number to be used for the delete
operation, either 2 or 3. LDAP v3 is the default. Specify LDAP v2 when
connecting to servers that do not support v3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run in verbose mode, with diagnostics written to standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -W
.I password
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the password for the client's key database given in the
.B -P
option. This option is required for certificate-based client authentication.
Specifying
.I password
on the command line has security issues because
the password can be seen by others on the system by means of the
.BR ps
command. Use the
.B -j
instead to specify the password from the file.
This option is mutually exclusive of
.BR -j .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I passwd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use
.I passwd
as the password for authentication to the directory. When
you use
.B -w
.I passwd
to specify the password to be used for
authentication, the password is visible to other users of the system by
means of the
.B ps
command, in script files or in shell history. If you
use the
.B ldapsearch
command without this option, the command prompts
for the password and read it from standard in. When used without the
.B -w
option, the password is not visible to other users.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use with the
.B -S
option to specify that search results be sorted on
the server rather than by the
.B ldapsearch
command running on the
client. This is useful if you want to sort according to a matching rule, as
with an international search. It is usually faster to sort on the server, if
that is supported, rather than on the client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Y
.I proxyDN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the proxy DN (proxied authorization id) to use for the modify
operation, usually in double quotes (" ") for the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify that SSL be used to provide certificate-based client
authentication. This option requires the
.B -N
and SSL password and any
other of the SSL options needed to identify the certificate and the key
database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I sizelimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieve at most
.I sizelimit
entries for a search to complete.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Performing a Subtree Search
.sp
.LP
The following command performs a subtree search (using the default search
base) for entries with a commonName of "mark smith". The commonName and
telephoneNumber values is retrieved and printed to standard output. Use the
.B -r
option to display this output in the old format.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ldapsearch "cn=mark smith" cn telephoneNumber
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The output looks something like this:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dn: Mark D Smith, ou=Sales, ou=Atlanta, ou=People, o=XYZ, c=US
cn: Mark Smith
cn: Mark David Smith
cn: Mark D Smith 1
cn: Mark D Smith
telephoneNumber: +1 123 456-7890

dn: Mark C Smith, ou=Distribution, ou=Atlanta, ou=People, o=XYZ, c=US
cn: Mark Smith
cn: Mark C Smith 1
cn: Mark C Smith
telephoneNumber: +1 123 456-9999
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Performing a Subtree Search Using the Default Search Base
.sp
.LP
The following command performs a subtree search using the
.B -r
option
to display in old style format with a default search base for entries with
user id of
.BR mcs .
The user-friendly form of the entry's DN is output
after the line that contains the DN itself, and the
.B jpegPhoto
and
.B audio
values are retrieved and written to temporary files.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ldapsearch -r -u -t "uid=mcs" -r jpegPhoto audio
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The output might look like this if one entry with one value for each of the
requested attributes is found:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
cn=Mark C Smith, ou=Distribution, ou=Atlanta, ou=People, o=XYZ, c=US
Mark C Smith, Distribution, Atlanta, People, XYZ, US
audio=/tmp/ldapsearch-audio-a19924
jpegPhoto=/tmp/ldapsearch-jpegPhoto-a19924
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Performing a One-Level Search
.sp
.LP
The following command performs a one-level search at the c=US level for all
organizations whose organizationName begins with XY.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ldapsearch -s one -b "c=US" "o=XY*" o description
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The
.B organizationName
and
.B description
attribute values are
retrieved and printed to standard output, resulting in output similar to
this:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
dn: o=XYZ    c=US
     o: XYZ
     description: XYZ Corporation

     dn: o="XY Trading Company", c=US
     o: XY Trading Company
     description: Import and export specialists

     dn: o=XYInternational, c=US
     o: XYInternational
     o: XYI
     o: XY International
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Performing a Subtree Search on an IPv6 Server
.sp
.LP
The following command performs a subtree search using the default search
base for entries with a user id of
.B mcs
on an IPv6 (that is,
.BR -h )
server:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ldapsearch -u -h '['fec0::111:a00:20ff:fea3:edcf']' \e
              -t "uid=mcs" jpegPhoto audio
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred. A diagnostic message is written to standard error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
Stability LevelEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR attributes (5)
