'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH let 1 "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
let \- shell built-in function to evaluate one or more arithmetic
expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBlet\fR \fIarg\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBlet\fR [\fIexpr\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
Each
.I arg
is a separate arithmetic expression to be evaluated.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
.B let
evaluates each
.I expr
in the current shell environment as an
arithmetic expression using ANSI C syntax. Variables names are shell
variables and they are recursively evaluated as arithmetic expressions to
get numerical values.
.B let
has been made obsolete by the \fB((.\|.\|.))\fR
syntax of
.BR ksh93 (1)
which does not require quoting of the operators to
pass them as command arguments.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
.B ksh
returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The value of the last expression is
.BR non-zero .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The value of the last expression is zero.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
.B ksh93
returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The last
.I expr
evaluates to a
.B non-zero
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The last
.I expr
evaluates to
.B 0
or an error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR set (1),
.BR typeset (1),
.BR attributes (5)
