'\" te
.\" Copyright 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH list_devices 1 "30 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
list_devices \- list allocatable devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlist_devices\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuid\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-a\fR [\fB-w\fR]]
     \fB-l\fR | \fB-n\fR | \fB-u\fR [\fIdevice\fR] | [\fB-l\fR | \fB-n\fR | \fB-u\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIdev-class\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlist_devices\fR [\fB-s\fR] \fB-d\fR \fIdev-type\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_devices
utility lists the allocatable devices in the system
according to specified qualifications.
.sp
.LP
The
.I device
and all device special files associated with the device
are listed. The device argument is optional and, if it is not present, all
relevant devices are listed. If
.I dev-class
is present, devices
belonging to the specified
.I dev-class
are listed. There is no default
.IR dev-class .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR [\fB-c\fR
.I dev-class
| \fIdevice\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Lists the pathnames of the device special files associated with the
.I device
that are allocatable to the current process.
.sp
If
.I dev-class
is specified, lists only the files associated with all
devices of the specified device class.
.sp
If
.I device
is specified, lists only the files associated with the
specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR [\fB-c\fR
.I dev-class
| \fIdevice\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Lists the pathnames of the device special files associated with the device
that are allocatable to the current process but are not currently allocated.

.sp
If
.I dev-class
is specified, lists only the files associated with all
devices of the specified device class.
.sp
If
.I device
is specified, lists only the files associated with the
specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Silent. Suppresses any diagnostic output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR [\fB-c\fR
.I dev-class
| \fIdevice\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Lists the pathnames of device special files associated with the device that
are allocated to the owner of the current process.
.sp
If
.I dev-class
is specified, lists only the files associated with all
devices of the specified device class.
.sp
If
.I device
is specified, lists only the files associated with the
specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.I uid
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Uses the user
.B ID
.I uid
instead of the real user
.B ID
of the
current process when performing the
.B list_devices
operation. Only a
user with the
.B solaris.device.revoke
authorization can use this
option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported when the system is configured with
Trusted Extensions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists attributes like authorizations, cleaning programs and labels
associated with a device.
.sp
The list is a single line of semicolon
.RB ( ; )
separated
\fIkey\fB=\fIvalue\fR pairs for each device in the format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
device=\fIdevice-name\fR;type=\fIdevice-type\fR;\e
auths=\fIauths\fR;clean=\fIdevice-exec\fR;\e
\fIdevice-attributes\fR;\e
files=\fIdevice-list\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where
.I device-attributes
is the contents of the
.B reserved1
field
of
.BR device_allocate (4).
The field is colon
.RB ( : )
separated.)
.sp
See
.BR device_allocate (4)
for a description of these attributes and
their format.
.sp
The
.B -a
output has the following keys:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auths
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the list of authorizations. The value is
.B auths
is described
in
.BR device_allocate (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clean
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the device cleaning script. The value is
.B device-exec
as
described in
.BR device_allocate (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B device
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the device name. The value is
.B device-name
as described in
.BR device_allocate (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B files
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the device file paths. The value is
.B device-list
as
described in
.BR device_maps (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B type
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the device type. The value is
.B device-type
as described in
.BR device_allocate (4).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Displays the system-supplied default attributes for the device types
managed by device allocation. If
.I dev-type
is specified, it lists the
default attributes for only that device type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This option can be used with
.B -a
to list the current owner of the
device as the key value pair \fIowner\fB=\fIvalue\fR.
.I value
is
the
.B uid
of the current owner of the device. If the device is
unallocated, value is
.BR /FREE .
If the device is in error state, value is
.BR /ERROR .
This option also suppresses any diagnostic output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zonename
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
When specified with the
.B -l
option, lists only those non-allocated
devices whose label range includes the label of the zonename, and of the
allocated devices, only those that are allocated at the same label as that
of
.IR zonename .
.sp
When specified with the
.B -n
option, lists only those non-allocated
devices whose label range includes the label of the
.IR zonename .
.sp
When specified with the
.B -u
option, lists only those devices that are
allocated at the same label as that of
.IR zonename .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Listing All Devices
.sp
.LP
The following example lists all devices available to the caller for
allocation:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% list_devices -l
device: audio type: audio \e
files: /dev/audio /dev/audioctl /dev/sound/0 /dev/sound/0ctl
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing Attributes of All Devices
.sp
.LP
On a system configured with Trusted Extensions, the following example lists
attributes of all devices available to the caller for allocation:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% list_devices -al
device=audio1;type=audio;\e
auths=solaris.device.allocate;\e
clean=/etc/security/lib/audio_clean;\e
minlabel=admin_low:maxlabel=admin_high;\e
files=/dev/audio1 /dev/audio1ctl /dev/sound/1 /dev/sound/1ctl
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Listing Attributes Including the Device Owner
.sp
.LP
On a system configured with Trusted Extensions, the following example lists
attributes including the device owner of all devices allocated to the
user:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% list_devices -auw
device=audio2;type=audio;auths=solaris.device.allocate;\e
clean=/etc/security/lib/audio_clean;\e
minlabel=admin_low:maxlabel=admin_high:zone=public;\e
owner=1234;\e
files=/dev/audio2 /dev/audio2ctl /dev/sound/2 /dev/sound/2ctl
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No entry for the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I other value
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_allocate
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/device_maps
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/dev/*
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/security/lib/*
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The invocation is Uncommitted. The options are Uncommitted. The output from
the
.B -a
and
.B -w
options is Uncommitted. All other output is
Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR allocate (1),
.BR deallocate (1),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR dminfo (1M),
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
.BR mkdevmaps (1M),
.BR device_allocate (4),
.BR device_maps (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Controlling Access to Devices
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described in this man page is available only if Solaris
Auditing has been enabled. See
.BR bsmconv (1M)
for more information.
.sp
.LP
On systems configured with Trusted Extensions, the functionality is enabled
by default.
.sp
.LP
.BR /etc/security/dev ,
.BR mkdevalloc (1M),
and
.BR mkdevmaps (1M)
might not be supported in a future release of the Solaris Operating
Environment.
