'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH loadkeys 1 "20 Apr 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
loadkeys, dumpkeys \- load and dump keyboard translation tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBloadkeys\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdumpkeys\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B loadkeys
reads the file specified by
.IR filename ,
and modifies the
keyboard streams module's translation tables. If no file is specified,
.B loadkeys
loads the file:
.BI /usr/share/lib/keytables/type_ tt /layout_ dd,
where
.I tt
is the value returned by the
.BR "KIOCTYPE ioctl" ,
and
.B dd
is the value returned by the
.B "KIOCLAYOUT ioctl"
(see
.BR kb (7M)).
These keytable files specify only the entries that change
between the specified layout and the default layout for the particular
keyboard type. On self-identifying keyboards, the value returned by the
.B KIOCLAYOUT ioctl
is set from the
.B DIP
switches.
.sp
.LP
.B dumpkeys
writes the current contents of the keyboard streams module's
translation tables, in the format specified by
.BR keytables (4),
to the
standard output.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/keytables/layout_dd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default keytable files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kbd (1),
.BR keytables (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kb (7M),
.BR usbkbm (7M)
