'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  All rights reserved.
.\" The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH logger 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
logger \- add entries to the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlogger\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] [\fImessage\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B logger
command provides a method for adding one-line entries to
the system log file from the command line. One or more \fImessage\fR
arguments can be given on the command line, in which case each is logged
immediately. If this is unspecified, either the file indicated with \fB-f\fR
or the standard input is added to the log.  Otherwise, a \fIfile\fR can be
specified, in which case each line in the file is logged. If neither is
specified,
.B logger
reads and logs messages on a line-by-line basis from
the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Uses the contents of \fIfile\fR as the message to log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Logs the process
.B ID
of the
.B logger
process with each line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fIpriority\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Enters the message with the specified
.IR priority .
The message priority
can be specified numerically, or as a \fIfacility\fB\&.\fIlevel\fR
pair. For example, `\fB-p local3.info\fR' assigns the message
priority to the \fBinfo\fR level in the \fBlocal3\fR facility.  The default
priority is
.BR user.notice .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fItag\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Marks each line added to the log with the specified
.IR tag .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I message
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
One of the string arguments whose contents are concatenated together, in
the order specified, separated by single space characters.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of the logger command
.sp
.LP
The following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlogger System rebooted\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
logs the message `\fBSystem rebooted\fR' to the default priority level
\fBnotice\fR to be treated by \fBsyslogd\fR as are other messages to the
facility
.BR user .

.sp
.LP
The next example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlogger -p local0.notice -t HOSTIDM -f /dev/idmc\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
reads from the file
.B /dev/idmc
and logs each line in that file as a
message with the tag `\fBHOSTIDM\fR' at priority level
.B notice
to be
treated by
.B syslogd
as are other messages to the facility
.BR local0 .

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR logger :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mailx (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR syslogd (1M),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
