'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lookbib 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lookbib \- find references in a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlookbib\fR \fIdatabase\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A bibliographic reference is a set of lines, constituting fields of
bibliographic information.  Each field starts on a line beginning with a
.RB ` % ',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank, and finally the contents
of the field, which may continue until the next line starting with
.RB ` % '.
.sp
.LP
The
.B lookbib
utility uses an inverted index made by
.B indxbib
to
find sets of bibliographic references.  It reads keywords typed after the
.RB ` > '
prompt on the terminal, and retrieves records containing all these
keywords. If nothing matches, nothing is returned except another
.RB ` > '
prompt.
.sp
.LP
It is possible to search multiple databases, as long as they have a common
index made by
.BR indxbib (1).
In that case, only the first argument given
to
.B indxbib
is specified to
.BR lookbib .
.sp
.LP
If
.B lookbib
does not find the index files (the \fB\&.i\fR[\fBabc\fR]
files), it looks for a reference file with the same name as the argument,
without the suffixes.  It creates a file with a
.B \&.ig
suffix, suitable
for use with
.B fgrep
(see
.BR grep (1)).
.B lookbib
then uses this
.B fgrep
file to find references.  This method is simpler to use, but the
.B
\&.ig \c
.RB "file is slower to use than the " \&.i [ abc ]
files, and
does not allow the use of multiple reference files.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR x .ia
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR x .ib
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR x .ic
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
index files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR x .ig
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
reference file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addbib (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Probably all dates should be indexed, since many disciplines refer to
literature written in the 1800s or earlier.
