'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH look 1 "29 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
look \- find words in the system dictionary or lines in a sorted list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/look\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-t\fIc\fR] \fIstring\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B look
command consults a sorted
.I filename
and prints all
lines that begin with
.IR string .
.sp
.LP
If no
.I filename
is specified,
.B look
uses
.B /usr/share/lib/dict/words
with collating sequence
.BR -df .
.sp
.LP
.B look
limits the length of a word to search for to 256 characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Dictionary order. Only letters, digits,
.B TAB
and
.BR SPACE
characters are used in comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Fold case. Upper case letters are not distinguished from lower case in
comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t c
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Set termination character. All characters to the right of
.I c
in
.I string
are ignored.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/dict/words
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
spelling list
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR grep (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR attributes (5)
