'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lorder 1 "29 Oct 1991" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lorder \- find ordering relation for an object or library archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlorder\fR \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The input is one or more object or library archive
.I filenames
(see
.BR ar (1)).
The standard output is a list of pairs of object file or
archive member names; the first file of the pair refers to external
identifiers defined in the second. The output may be processed by
.BR tsort (1)
to find an ordering of a library suitable for one-pass access
by
.BR ld .
Note that the link editor
.B ld
is capable of multiple
passes over an archive in the portable archive format (see
.BR ar.h (3HEAD))
and does not require that
.B lorder
be used when
building an archive.  The usage of the
.B lorder
command may, however,
allow for a more efficient access of the archive during the link edit
process.
.sp
.LP
The following example builds a new library from existing \fB\&.o\fR
files.
.sp
.LP
\fBar \|\fB-cr \|library \|`\|lorder \|*.o \|| \|tsort\|`\fR
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TMPDIR/*symref
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
temporary files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TMPDIR/*symdef
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
temporary files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TMPDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
usually
.B /var/tmp
but can be redefined by setting the environment
variable
.B TMPDIR
(see
.BR tempnam ()
in
.BR tmpnam (3C))
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR tsort (1),
.BR tmpnam (3C),
.BR ar.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B lorder
will accept as input any object or archive file, regardless of
its suffix, provided there is more than one input file. If there is but a
single input file, its suffix must be
.BR \&.o .
.sp
.LP
The length of the filename for
.B TMPDIR
is limited to whatever
.B sed
allows.
