'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lp 1 "31 May 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lp \- submit print request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlp\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdestination\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIform-name\fR]
     [\fB-H\fR \fIspecial-handling\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoption\fR]
     [\fB-P\fR \fIpage-list\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fIpriority-level\fR]
     [\fB-S\fR \fIcharacter-set\fR | \fIprint-wheel\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItitle\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR \fIcontent-type\fR [\fB-r\fR]] [\fB-y\fR \fImode-list\fR] [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlp\fR \fB-i\fR \fIrequest-ID\fR.\|.\|. [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-w\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdestination\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIform-name\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIspecial-handling\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoption\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpage-list\fR]
     [\fB-q\fR \fIpriority-level\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIcharacter-set\fR | \fIprint-wheel\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItitle\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIcontent-type\fR [\fB-r\fR]] [\fB-y\fR \fImode-list\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lp
utility submits print requests to a destination. There are two
formats of the
.B lp
command.
.sp
.LP
The first form of
.B lp
prints files (\fIfile\fR) and associated
information (collectively called a
.IR "print request" ).
If
.IR file " is"
not specified,
.B lp
assumes the standard input. Use a hyphen
(\fB\(mi\fR) with \fIfile\fR to specify the standard input. Files are
printed in the order in which they appear on the command line.
.sp
.LP
The second form of
.B lp
changes print request options. This form of
.B lp
can only be used with print services and protocols that support job
modification. The LP print service allows print requests to be modified when
they are in a queue local to the system that the lp commands was executed
on. The Internet Print Protocol (IPP) allows job modification on remote ipp
print services.
.sp
.LP
The print request identified by
.I request-ID
is changed according to
the printing options specified. The printing options available are the same
as those with the first form of the
.BR lp .
If the request has finished
printing when the
.B lp
command is executed, the change is rejected. If
the request is in the process of printing, it is stopped and restarted from
the beginning (unless the
.B -P
option has been given).
.sp
.LP
The print client commands locate destination information using the
"printers" database in the name service switch. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
.BR printers (4),
and
.BR printers.conf (4)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Printers that have a 4.\fIx\fR or
.B "BSD-based print server"
are not
configured to handle
.B BSD
protocol extensions.
.B lp
handles print
requests sent to such destinations differently (see NOTES).
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Copies
.I file
before printing.
.sp
Unless
.B -c
is specified, users should not remove any
.I file
before
the print request has completely printed. Changes made to
.I file
after
the print request is made but before it is printed might be reflected in the
printed output.
.I file
is linked (as opposed to copied).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I destination
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints
.I file
on a specific destination. The
.B -d
option is used to
set the destination only when the job is first created. (\fBNote:\fR To move
existing jobs to a different destination, see
.BR lpmove (1M).)
.I destination
can be either a printer or a class of printers (see
.BR lpadmin (1M)).
Specify
.I destination
using atomic, URI-style
(\fIscheme\fR://\fIendpoint\fR), or POSIX-style
(\fIserver\fB:\fIdestination\fR) names. See \fBprinters.conf\fR(4) for
more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I form-name
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints
.I file
on
.IR form-name .
The
.B LP
print service ensures
that the form is mounted on the printer. The print request is rejected if
the printer does not support
.IR form-name ,
if
.I form-name
is not
defined for the system, or if the user is not allowed to use \fIform-name\fR
(see \fBlpforms\fR(1M)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.I special-handling
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints the print request according to the value of
.IR special-handling .
The following
.I special-handling
values are acceptable:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hold
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not print the print request until notified. If printing has already
begun, stop it. Other print requests are placed ahead of a request that has
been put on hold (\fIheld print request\fR) until the print request is
resumed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B resume
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Resume a held print request. If the print request had begun to print when
held, it is the next print request printed, unless it is superseded by an
.I immediate
print request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B immediate
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Print the print request next. If more than one print request is assigned,
the most recent print request is printed next. If a print request is
currently printing on the desired printer, a
.B hold
request must be
issued to allow the immediate request to print. The
.B immediate
request
is only available to
.B LP
administrators.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I request-ID
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Changes options for the print request identified by
.IR request-ID .
There
must be a space between
.B -i
and
.IR request-ID .
.sp
This option applies to jobs that are in a local queue on a print server.
This also applies to remote queues on when the remote print server supports
IPP with job modification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Sends mail after
.I file
has printed (see
.BR mail (1)).
By default, no
mail is sent upon normal completion of a print request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I number
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints a specific number of copies of
.IR file .
Specify
.I number
as a
digit. The default for
.I number
is
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I option
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Specifies printer-dependent
.IR options .
Specify several options by
specifying
.B -o
.I option
multiple times (\fB-o\fR \fIoption\fR
.B -o
.I option
.B -o
.I option
). Printer-dependent options can
also be specified using the
.B -o
keyletter once, followed by a list of
options enclosed in double quotes (\fB-o\fR"\fIoption\fR \fIoption
option\fR"). 
.sp
\fIoption\fRs take the following forms:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIkey\fB=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Associates information with the request for use by the backend print
service. The keys and values that can be used are specific to the backend
print service and queue configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B [no]key
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
 Associates boolean information with the request for use by the backend print service. The keys that can be used are specific to the backend print service and queue configuration.
.RE

The following options are commonly used with the LP print service:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nobanner
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not print a banner page with the request. This option can be
disallowed by the
.B LP
administrator.
.sp
On a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions, use of this option
requires the
.B solaris.print.nobanner
authorization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nofilebreak
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints multiple files without inserting a form feed between them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nolabels
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions, specifies
suppression of page header and footer labels. Use of this option requires
the
.B solaris.print.unlabeled
authorization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlength=\fInumber\fBi\fR | \fInumber\fBc\fR |
.I number
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the print request with pages of a specific length in inches,
centimeters, or number of lines. Append the letter
.B i
for inches or
.B c
for centimenters to
.IR number .
Indicate the number of lines by
specifying
.I number
alone.
.B length=66
indicates a page length of
.B 66
lines.
.B length=11i
indicates a page length of
.B 11
inches.
.B length=27.94c
indicates a page length of
.B 27.94
centimeters.
.sp
This option can not be used with the
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwidth=\fInumber\fBi\fR | \fInumber\fBc\fR |
.I number
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the print request with pages of a specific width in inches,
centimeters, or number of columns. Append the letter
.B i
for inches or
.B c
for centimeters to
.IR number .
Indicate the number of columns by
specifying
.I number
alone.
.B width=65
indicates a page width of
.B 65
columns.
.B width=6.5i
indicates a page width of
.BR 6.5
inches.
.B width=10c
indicates a page width of
.B 10
centimeters.
.sp
This option can not be used with the
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlpi=\fInumber\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the print request with the line pitch set to
.I number
lines in
an inch. Use
.I number
to specify the number of lines in an inch.
.sp
This option can not be used with the
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcpi=\fIn\fR|\fBpica\fR|\fBelite\fR|\fBcompressed\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the print request with the character pitch set to
.IR number
characters in an inch. Use
.I number
to specify the number of characters
in an inch. Use
.B pica
to set character pitch to pica (\fB10\fR
characters per inch), or
.B elite
to set character pitch to elite
(\fB12\fR characters per inch) Use \fBcompressed\fR to set character pitch
to as many characters as the printer can handle. There is no standard number
of characters per inch for all printers; see the
.B terminfo
database
(see
.BR terminfo (4))
for the default character pitch for your printer.
This option can not be used with the
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstty=\fIstty-option-list\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the request using a list of options valid for the
.B stty
command
(see
.BR stty (1).
Enclose the list in single quotes (\fB`'\fR) if it
contains blanks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I page-list
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints the pages specified in
.I page-list
in ascending order. Specify
.I page-list
as a of range of numbers, single page number, or a
combination of both.
.sp
The
.B -P
option can only be used if there is a filter available to
handle it; otherwise, the print request is rejected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Enables notification on completion of the print request. Delivery of the
notification is dependent on additional software.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.I priority-level
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Assigns the print request a priority in the print queue. Specify
.I priority-level
as an integer between from
.B 0
and
.BR 39 .
Use
.B 0
to indicate the highest priority;
.B 39
to indicate the lowest
priority. If no priority is specified, the default priority for a print
service is assigned by the
.B LP
.RB "administrator. The" " LP"
administrator can also assign a default priority to individual users.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Suppresses the display of messages sent from
.BR lp .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I character-set
.B |
.ad
.br
.na
.B -S
.I print-wheel
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints the request using the
.I character-set
or
.IR print-wheel .
If a
form was requested and requires a character set or print wheel other than
the one specified with the
.B -S
option, the request is rejected.
Printers using mountable print wheels or font cartridges use the print wheel
or font cartridge mounted at the time of the print request, unless the
.B -S
option is specified.
.sp
Printers Using Print Wheels: If
.B print
.I wheel
is not one listed
by the
.B LP
administrator as acceptable for the printer the request is
rejected unless the print wheel is already mounted on the printer.
.sp
Printers Using Selectable or Programmable Character Sets: If the \fB-S\fR
option is not specified,
.B lp
uses the standard character set. If
.I character-set
is not defined in the
.B terminfo
database for the
printer (see
.BR terminfo (4)),
or is not an alias defined by the
.BR LP
administrator, the request is rejected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I title
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints a title on the banner page of the output. Enclose
.I title
in
quotes if it contains blanks. If
.I title
is not not specified, the name
of the file is printed on the banner page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fIcontent-type\fR [\fB-r\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints the request on a printer that can support the specified
.IR content-type .
If no printer accepts this type directly, a filter is
used to convert the content into an acceptable type. If the
.B -r
option
is specified, a filter is not used. If
.B -r
is specified, and no printer
accepts the
.I content-type
directly, the request is rejected. If the
.I content-type
is not acceptable to any printer, either directly or with
a filter, the request is rejected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Writes a message on the user's terminal after the \fIfile\fRs have been
printed. If the user is not logged in, then mail is sent instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.I mode-list
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Prints the request according to the printing modes listed in
.IR mode-list .
The allowed values for
.I mode-list
are locally
defined.
.sp
This option can be used only if there is a filter available to handle it;
otherwise, the print request is rejected.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The name of the file to be printed. Specify
.I file
as a pathname or as
a hyphen (\fB\(mi\fR) to indicate the standard input. If \fIfile\fR is not
specified,
.B lp
uses the standard input.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B lp
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR lp :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR NLSPATH ,
and
.BR PATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_TIME
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the format and contents of date and time strings displayed in the
.B lp
banner page, if any.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LPDEST
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the destination. If the
.B LPDEST
environment variable is not
set, the
.B PRINTER
.RB "environment variable shall be used. The" " -d"
.I dest
option takes precedence over
.BR LPDEST .
Results are undefined
when
.B -d
is not specified and
.B LPDEST
contains a value that is not
a valid destination name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRINTER
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the output device or destination. If the
.B LPDEST
and
.B PRINTER
environment variables are not set, an unspecified output
device is used. The
.B -d
.I dest
option and the
.BR LPDEST
environment variable shall take precedence over
.BR PRINTER .
Results are
undefined when
.B -d
is not specified,
.B LPDEST
is unset, and
.B PRINTER
contains a value that is not a valid device or destination
name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the timezone used to calculate date and time strings displayed in
the
.B lp
banner page, if any. If
.B TZ
is unset or null, an
unspecified default timezone shall be used.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/printers.conf
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
System printer configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User-configurable printer database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ou=printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
LDAP version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.conf.byname
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS
version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.org_dir
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlp-cmds
_
CSIEnabled. See \fBNOTES\fR.
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cancel (1),
.BR enable (1),
.BR lpq (1B),
.BR lpr (1B),
.BR lprm (1B),
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR pr (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR accept (1M),
.BR lpadmin (1M),
.BR lpfilter (1M),
.BR lpforms (1M),
.BR lpmove (1M),
.BR lpsched (1M),
.BR lpshut (1M),
.BR lpsystem (1M),
.BR lpusers (1M),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR printers (4),
.BR printers.conf (4),
.BR terminfo (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBCSI\fR-capability assumes that printer names are composed of \fBASCII\fR
characters.
.sp
.LP
Print jobs are assumed to contain one type of data. That type of data is
either specified on the command line or autodetected (simple, PostScript)
based on the contents of the first file in the job.
.sp
.LP
When using the BSD printing protocol to send print requests to a remote
print service, functionality is limited.
.sp
.LP
Printers that have a 4.\fIx\fR or BSD-based print server are not configured
to handle BSD protocol extensions.
.B lp
handles print requests sent to
such printers in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Print requests with more than 52 filenames are truncated to 52 files.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
The
.BR -f ,
.BR -H ,
.BR -o ,
.BR -P ,
.BR -p ,
.BR -q ,
.BR -S ,
.BR -T ,
and
.B -y
options might require a protocol extension to pass to
a print server. If
.B lp
cannot handle the print request, it displays a
warning message.
.sp
.B LP
administrators enable protocol extensions by setting a printer's
.B printer-uri-supported
(or
.BR bsdaddr )
entry in
.BR /etc/printers.conf .
Changing the
.B printer-uri-supported
entry in
.B /etc/printers.conf
to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBprinter-uri-supported=lpd\e://\fIserver\fB/\fIprinters\fB/\fIdestination\fB#Solaris\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBbsdaddr=\fIserver\fB,\fIdestination\fB,Solaris\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Adding
.B Solaris
to either of these values causes the
.B lp
command
to generate a set of BSD print protocol extensions that can be processed by
a Solaris print server.
.RE
.sp
.LP
As a result of several limitations in the BSD print protocol, it is
recommended that the IPP protocol be used for communication with print
servers.
.sp
.LP
When IPP is in use, the user is prompted for a passphrase if the remote
print service is configured to require authentication.
