'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lpstat 1 "3 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print information about the status of the print service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlpstat\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-a\fR [\fIlist\fR]] [\fB-c\fR [\fIlist\fR]]
     [\fB-f\fR [\fIlist\fR]] [\fB-o\fR [\fIlist\fR]] [\fB-p\fR [\fIlist\fR] [\fB-D\fR]] [\fB-S\fR [\fIlist\fR]]
     [\fB-u\fR [\fIlogin-\fR \fIID\fR \fI-list\fR]] [\fB-v\fR [\fIlist\fR]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlevel\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lpstat
utility displays information about the current status of the
.B LP
print service to standard output.
.sp
.LP
If no options are given,
.B lpstat
prints the status of all the user's
print requests made by
.BR lp .
See
.BR lp (1).
Any arguments that are not
.I options
are assumed to be
.I request-IDs
as returned by
.BR lp .
The
.B lpstat
command prints the status of such requests.
.I options
appears
in any order and can be repeated and intermixed with other arguments. Some key
letters can be followed by an optional
.I list
that can be in one of two
forms: a list of items separated from one another by a comma, or a list of
items separated from one another by spaces enclosed in quotes. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlpstat -u "user1 user2 user3"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Specifying
.B all
after any key letter that takes
.I list
as an
argument causes all information relevant to the key letter to be printed. For
example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlpstat -o all\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints the status of all output requests.
.sp
.LP
The omission of a
.I list
following such key letters causes all
information relevant to the key letter to be printed. For example, the
command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlpstat -o\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints the status of all output requests.
.sp
.LP
The print client commands locate destination information using the "printers"
database in the name service switch. See
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR printers (4),
and
.BR printers.conf (4)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR [\fIlist\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Reports whether print destinations are accepting requests.
.I list
is a
list of intermixed printer names and class names.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, the information provided is
very close to that reported for local queues. If the print queue is remote and
IPP is not in use (the print server is older than Solaris 9, Update 6 or
another RFC-1179-based print service), this option does not report any useful
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR [\fIlist\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints name of all classes and their members.
.I list
is a list of class
names.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, the information provided is
very close to that reported for local queues. If the print queue is remote and
IPP is not in use (the print server is older than Solaris 9, Update 6 or
another RFC-1179-based print service), this option does not report any useful
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the default destination for output requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR[\fIlist\fR] [\fB-l\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints a verification that the forms in
.I list
are recognized by the
.B LP
print service.
.I list
is a list of forms; the default is
.BR all .
The
.B -l
option lists the form descriptions.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, the information provided is
very close to that reported for local queues. If the print queue is remote and
IPP is not in use (the print server is older than Solaris 9, Update 6 or
another RFC-1179-based print service), this option does not report any useful
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR [\fIlevel\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Specifies the verbosity level for extended reporting of printer or job
objects
.RB ( -o ,
.BR -p ,
.BR -r ,
.BR -u ).
Without this option, a level
of
.B 0
is used, which reports summary information. When no level is
specified, a level of
.BR 1 is
used, which provides more information about
the object. A level of
.B 2
or more enumerates all of the object's
attributes.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, the information provided is
very close to that reported for local queues. If the print queue is remote and
IPP is not in use (the print server is older than Solaris 9, Update 6 or
another RFC-1179-based print service), this option does not report any useful
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR [\fIlist\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the status of output requests.
.I list
is a list of intermixed
printer names, class names, and request-IDs. The key letter
.B -o
can be
omitted.
.sp
Specify printer and class names using atomic, URI-style (scheme://endpoint),
or POSIX-style (\fIserver\fB:\fIdestination\fR) names. See
.BR printers.conf (4)
for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR [\fIlist\fR] [\fB-D\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the status of printers.
.I list
is a list of printer names. If the
.B -D
option is given, a brief description is printed for each printer in
.IR list .
If the
.B -l
option is given and the printer is on the local
machine, a full description of each printer's configuration is returned,
including the form mounted, the acceptable content and printer types, a
printer description, and the interface used.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, correct job id is reported.
If the print queue is remote and IPP is not in use (the print server is older
than Solaris 9, Update 6 or another RFC-1179-based print service), \fB-p [\fIlist\fR]\fR always reports the first job in the queue irrespective of its
status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the status of the
.B LP
request scheduler.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints a number showing the position of each request in the print queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints a status summary, including the status of the
.B LP
scheduler, the
default destination, a list of printers and their associated devices, a list
of the machines sharing print services, a list of all forms currently mounted,
and a list of all recognized character sets and print wheels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-S\fR [\fIlist\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints a verification that the character sets or the print wheels specified
in
.I list
are recognized by the
.B LP
print service. Items in
.I list
can be character sets or print wheels; the default for the list is
.BR all .
If the
.B -l
option is given, each line is appended by a list of
printers that can handle the print wheel or character set. The list also shows
whether the print wheel or character set is mounted, or specifies the built-in
character set into which it maps.
.sp
If the print queue is remote and IPP is in use, the information provided is
very close to that reported for local queues. If the print queue is remote and
IPP is not in use (the print server is older than Solaris 9, Update 6 or
another RFC-1179-based print service), this option does not report any useful
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints all status information. This includes all the information obtained
with the
.B -s
option, plus the acceptance and idle/busy status of all
printers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR [\fIlogin-ID-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the status of output requests for users. The
.I login-ID-list
argument can include any or all of the following constructs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I login-ID
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
a user on any system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIsystem_name\fB!\fIlogin-ID\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
a user on system
.IR system_name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB system_name !all
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
all users on system
.IR system_name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI all! login-ID
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
a user on all systems
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
all users on all systems
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-v\fR [\fIlist\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Prints the names of printers and the path names of the devices associated
with them or remote system names for network printers.
.I list
is a list of
printer names.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/printers.conf
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
System printer configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
User-configurable printer database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ou=printers
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
LDAP version of
.B /etc/printers.conf
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.conf.byname
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS
version of
.B /etc/printers.conf
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B printers.org_dir
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
version of
.B /etc/printers.conf
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlp-cmds
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpq (1B),
.BR lpr (1B),
.BR lprm (1B),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR printers (4),
.BR printers.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For remote print queues, the BSD print protocol provides a very limited set
of information. The Internet Print Protocol (IPP) is preferred.
.sp
.LP
When IPP is in use, the user is prompted for a passphrase if the remote print
service is configured to require authentication.
