'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ls 1 "3 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For each
.I file
that is a directory,
.B ls
lists the contents of the
directory. For each
.I file
that is an ordinary file,
.B ls
repeats its
name and any other information requested. The output is sorted alphabetically
by default. When no argument is given, the current directory
.RB ( \&. )
is
listed. When several arguments are given, the arguments are first sorted
appropriately, but file arguments appear before directories and their
contents.
.sp
.LP
There are three major listing formats. The default format for output
directed to a terminal is multi\(micolumn with entries sorted down the
columns. The
.B -1
option allows single column output and
.B -m
enables
stream output format. In order to determine output formats for the
.BR -C ,
.BR -x ,
and
.B -m
options,
.B ls
uses an environment variable,
.BR COLUMNS ,
to determine the number of character positions available on
one output line. If this variable is not set, the
.BR terminfo (4)
database
is used to determine the number of columns, based on the environment
variable,
.BR TERM .
If this information cannot be obtained, 80 columns are
assumed. If the
.B -w
option is used, the argument overrides any other
column width.
.sp
.LP
The mode printed when the
.BR -e ,
.BR -E ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -l ,
.BR -n ,
.BR -o ,
.BR -v ,
.BR -V ,
or
.B -@
option is in effect consists of
eleven characters. The first character can be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B D
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a door.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a symbolic link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a block special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a character special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a \fBFIFO\fR (or "named pipe") special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an event port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an
.B AF_UNIX
address family socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an ordinary file.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The next 9 characters are interpreted as three sets of three bits each. The
first set refers to the owner's permissions; the next to permissions of
others in the user-group of the file; and the last to all others. Within each
set, the three characters indicate permission to read, to write, and to
execute the file as a program, respectively. For a directory,
.B execute
permission is interpreted to mean permission to search the directory for a
specified file. The character after permissions is an ACL or extended
attributes indicator. This character is an
.B @
if extended attributes are
associated with the file and the
.B -@
option is in effect. Otherwise,
this character is a plus sign
.RB ( + )
character if a non-trivial ACL is
associated with the file or a space character if not.
.sp
.LP
If
.B -/
and/or
.B -%
are in effect, then the extended system
attributes are printed when filesystem supports extended system attributes.
The display looks as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ls -/ c  file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                {AHRSadim-u}

$ls -/ v file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                {archive,hidden,readonly,system,appendonly\e
                 nodump,immutable, av_modified,\e
                 noav_quarantined,nounlink}

$ls -l -% all file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                timestamp: atime    Jun 25 12:56:44 2007
                timestamp: ctime    May 10 14:20:23 2007
                timestamp: mtime    May 10 14:17:56 2007
                timestamp: crtime   May 10 14:17:56 2007
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See the option descriptions of the
.B -/
and
.B -%
option for details.

.sp
.LP
.B ls -l
(the long list) prints its output as follows for the POSIX
locale:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-rwxrwxrwx+ 1 smith dev   10876  May 16 9:42 part2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Reading from right to left, you see that the current directory holds one
file, named
.BR part2 .
Next, the last time that file's contents were
modified was
.B "9:42 A.M."
on
.BR "May 16" .
The file contains 10,876
characters, or bytes. The owner of the file, or the user, belongs to the
group
.B dev
(perhaps indicating
.BR development ),
and his or her login
name is
.BR smith .
The number, in this case
.BR 1 ,
indicates the number
of links to file
.B part2
(see
.BR cp (1)).
The plus sign indicates that
there is an
.B ACL
associated with the file. If the
.B -@
option has
been specified, the presence of extended attributes supersede the presence of
an
.B ACL
and the plus sign is replaced with an 'at' sign
.RB ( @ ).
Finally, the dash and letters tell you that user, group, and others have
permissions to read, write, and execute
.BR part2 .
.sp
.LP
The execute
.RB ( x )
symbol occupies the third position of the
three-character sequence. A
.B \(mi
in the third position would have
indicated a denial of execution permissions.
.sp
.LP
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is readable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is writable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is executable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The indicated permission is
.I not
granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.BR s et-user-ID
or \fBs\fRet-group-ID bit is on, and the corresponding
user or group execution bit is also on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B S
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Undefined bit-state (the set-user-ID or set-group-id bit is on and the user
or group execution bit is off). For group permissions, this applies only to
non-regular files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The 1000 (octal) bit, or sticky bit, is on (see
.BR chmod (1)),
and
execution is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The 1000 bit is turned on, and execution is off (undefined bit-state).
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/ls"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mandatory locking occurs during access (on a regular file, the set-group-ID
bit is on and the group execution bit is off).
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls and /usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B L
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mandatory locking occurs during access (on a regular file, the set-group-ID
bit is on and the group execution bit is off).
.RE

.sp
.LP
For user and group permissions, the third position is sometimes occupied by
a character other than
.B x
or
.BR - .
.B s
or
.B S
also can occupy
this position, referring to the state of the set-ID bit, whether it be the
user's or the group's. The ability to assume the same ID as the user during
execution is, for example, used during login when you begin as root but need
to assume the identity of the user you login as.
.sp
.LP
In the case of the sequence of group permissions,
.B l
can occupy the
third position.
.B l
refers to mandatory file and record locking. This
permission describes a file's ability to allow other files to lock its
reading or writing permissions during access.
.sp
.LP
For others permissions, the third position can be occupied by
.B t
or
.BR T .
These refer to the state of the sticky bit and execution
permissions.
.SS "Color Output"
.sp
.LP
If color output is enabled, the environment variable LS_COLORS is checked.
If it exists, it's contents are used to control the colors used to display
filenames. If it is not set, a default list of colors is used. The format of
LS_COLORS is a colon separated list of attribute specifications. Each
attribute specification is of the format
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIfilespec\fR=\fIattr\fR[;\fIattr\fR..]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.I filespec
is either of the form
.IR *.SUFFIX ,
for example,
.B *.jar
or
.BR *.Z ,
or one of the following file types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Normal file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Regular file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B di
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ln
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
FIFO or named pipe
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B so
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B do
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Door file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Block device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ex
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute bit (either
.BR user ,
.BR group ,
or
.BR other )
set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B po
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Event port
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B st
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sticky bit set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B or
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Orphaned symlink
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sg
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B setgid
binary
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B su
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B setuid
binary
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ow
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B world
writable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tw
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sticky bit and
.B world
writable
.RE

.sp
.LP
.I attr
is a semicolon delimited list of color and display attributes
which are combined to determine the final output color. Any combination of
.I attr
values can be specified. Possible
.I attr
values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 00
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All attributes off (default terminal color)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 01
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text in bold
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 04
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text with an underscore
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 05
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text in bold
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 07
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text with foreground and background colors reversed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 08
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using concealed text.
.RE

.sp
.LP
One of the following values can be chosen. If multiple values are specified,
the last specified value is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 30
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR black .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 31
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR red .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR green .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 33
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR yellow .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 34
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR blue .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 35
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR magenta
.RB ( purple ).
.sp
Set foreground to\fR .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 36
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR cyan .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 37
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR white .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 39
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to default terminal color.
.RE

.sp
.LP
One of the following can be specified. If multiple values are specified, the
last value specified is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 40
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR black .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 41
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR red .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 42
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR green .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 43
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR yellow .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 44
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR blue .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 45
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR magenta
.RB ( purple ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 46
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR cyan .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 47
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to
.BR white .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 49
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to default terminal color.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On some terminals, setting the bold attribute causes the foreground colors
to be high-intensity, that is, brighter. In such cases the low-intensity
yellow is often displayed as a brown or orange color.
.sp
.LP
At least one attribute must be listed for a file specification.
.sp
.LP
The appropriate color codes are chosen by selecting the most specific match,
starting with the file suffixes and proceeding with the file types until a
match is found. The
.B no
(normal file) type matches any file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.SS "/usr/bin/ls, /usr/xpg4/bin/ls, and /usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for all three versions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.br
.na
.B --all
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all entries, including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), which
are normally not listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.br
.na
.B --almost-all
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all entries, including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), with
the exception of the working directory (\fB\&.\fR) and the parent directory
(\fB\&..\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.br
.na
.B --escape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces printing of non-printable characters to be in the octal
\fB\e\fIddd\fR notation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -B
.ad
.br
.na
.B --ignore-backups
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not display any files ending with a tilde
.RB ( ~ ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses time of last modification of the i-node (file created, mode changed,
.RB "and so forth) for sorting (" -t ") or printing (" -l " or"
.BR -n ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output with entries sorted down the columns. This is the
default output format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a directory, lists only its name (not its contents). Often
used with
.B -l
to get the status of a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except displays time to the second, and with one
format for all files regardless of age:
.IR "mmm dd hh:mm:ss yyyy" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except displays time to the nanosecond and with one
format for all files regardless of age:
.I "yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.nnnnnnnnn"
(ISO 8601:2000 format).
.sp
In addition, this option displays the offset from UTC in ISO 8601:2000
.RI "standard format (+" hhmm " or -" hhmm )
or no characters if the offset
is indeterminable. The offset reflects the appropriate standard or alternate
offset in force at the file's displayed date and time, under the current
timezone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces each argument to be interpreted as a directory and list the name
found in each slot. This option turns off
.BR -l ,
.BR -t ,
.BR -s ,
.BR -S ,
and
.BR -r ,
and turns on
.BR -a .
The order is the order in
which entries appear in the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.br
.na
.B --classify
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a symbol after certain types of files to indicate the file type. The
following symbols are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Door file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B |
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Named pipe
.RB ( FIFO )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B @
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B =
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B *
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Executable
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that the owner is not printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.br
.na
.B --human-readable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All sizes are scaled to a human readable format, for example,
.BR 14K ,
.BR 234M ,
.BR 2.7G ,
or
.BR 3.0T .
Scaling is done by repetitively
dividing by
.BR 1024 .
The last --si or -h option determines the divisor
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.br
.na
.B --dereference-command-line
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a symbolic link that references a directory, this option
evaluates the file information and file type of the directory that the link
references, rather than those of the link itself. However, the name of the
link is displayed, rather than the referenced directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.br
.na
.B --inode
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For each file, prints the i-node number in the first column of the report.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All sizes are printed in kbytes. Equivalent to --block-size=1024.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists in long format, giving mode,
.B ACL
indication, number of links,
owner, group, size in bytes, and time of last modification for each file (see
above). If the file is a special file, the size field instead contains the
major and minor device numbers. If the time of last modification is greater
than six months ago, it is shown in the format `month date year' for the
POSIX locale. When the
.B LC_TIME
locale category is not set to the POSIX
locale, a different format of the time field can be used. Files modified
within six months show `month date time'. If the file is a symbolic link, the
filename is printed followed by "\fB\(->\fR" and the path name of the
referenced file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.br
.na
.B --dereference
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a symbolic link, this option evaluates the file
information and file type of the file or directory that the link references,
rather than those of the link itself. However, the name of the link is
displayed, rather than the referenced file or directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Streams output format. Files are listed across the page, separated by
commas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.br
.na
.B --numeric-uid-gid
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that the owner's
.B UID
and group's
.B GID
numbers are printed, rather than the associated character
strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.br
.na
.B --no-group
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that the group is not printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Puts a slash
.RB ( / )
after each filename if the file is a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.br
.na
.B --hide-control-chars
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces printing of non-printable characters in file names as the character
question mark
.RB ( ? ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.br
.na
.B --reverse
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reverses the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic, oldest first, or
smallest file size first as appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.br
.na
.B --recursive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recursively lists subdirectories encountered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
.B --size
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicate the total number of file system blocks consumed by each file
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sort by file size (in decreasing order) and for files with the same size by
file name (in increasing alphabetic order) instead of just by name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sorts by time stamp (latest first) instead of by name. The default is the
last modification time. See
.BR -c ,
.B -u
and
.BR -% .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses time of last access instead of last modification for sorting (with the
.B -t
option) or printing (with the
.B -l
option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Output is unsorted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that verbose ACL information is displayed as
well as the
.B -l
output. ACL information is displayed even if the file or
directory doesn't have an ACL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that compact ACL information is displayed after
the
.B -l
output.
.sp
The
.B -V
option is only applicable to file systems that support NFSv4
ACLs, such as the Solaris ZFS file system.
.sp
The format of the displayed ACL is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIentry_type\fR : \fIpermissions\fR : \fIinheritance_flags\fR : \fIaccess_type\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.I entry_type
is displayed as one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI user: username
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Additional user access for
.IR username .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI group: groupname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Additional group access for group
.IR groupname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B owner@
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B group@
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File group owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B everyone@
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Everyone access, including file owner and file group owner. This is not
equivalent to the POSIX other class.
.RE

The following permissions, supported by the NFSv4 ACL model, are displayed
by using the
.B -v
or
.B -V
options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "read_data (r" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to read the data of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "list_directory (r" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to list the contents of a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "write_data (w" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to modify a file's data. anywhere in the file's offset range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "add_file (w" )
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to add a new file to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "append_data (p" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ability to modify a file's data, but only starting at EOF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "add_subdirectory (p" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to create a subdirectory to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "read_xattr (R" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ability to read the extended attributes of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "write_xattr (W" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ability to create extended attributes or write to the extended attribute
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "execute (x" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to execute a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "read_attributes (a" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ability to read basic attributes (non-ACLs) of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "write_attributes (A" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to change the times associated with a file or directory to an
arbitrary value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "delete (d" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to delete a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "delete_child (D" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to delete a file within a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "read_acl (c" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to read the ACL of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "write_acl (C" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to write the ACL of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "write_owner (o" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to change the owner of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "synchronize (s" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to access file locally at server with synchronize reads and
writes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No permission granted
.RE

The following inheritance flags, supported by the NFSv4 ACL model, are
displayed by using the
.B -v
or
.B -V
options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "file_inherit (f" )
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Inherit to all newly created files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "dir_inherit (d" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Inherit to all newly created directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "inherit_only (i" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When placed on a directory, do not apply to the directory, only to newly
created files and directories. This flag requires that either
.B file_inherit
and or
.B dir_inherit
is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "no_propagate (n" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that ACL entries should be inherited to objects in a directory,
but inheritance should stop after descending one level. This flag is
dependent upon either
.B file_inherit
and or
.B dir_inherit
also being
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "successful_access (S" )
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if an alarm or audit record should be initiated upon successful
accesses. Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "failed_access (F" )
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if an alarm or audit record should be initiated when access fails.
Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR "inherited (I" )\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ACE was inherited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No permission granted.
.RE

.I access_type
is displayed as one of the following types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B alarm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Permission field that specifies permissions that should trigger an alarm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B allow
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Permission field that specifies allow permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B audit
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Permission field that specifies permissions that should be audited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B deny
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Permission field that specifies deny permissions.
.RE

For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ls -dV /sandbox/dir.1
  drwxr-xr-x+  2 root     root           2 Jan 17 15:09 dir.1
                  user:marks:r-------------:fd-----:allow
                      owner@:--------------:-------:deny
                      owner@:rwxp---A-W-Co-:-------:allow
                      group@:-w-p----------:-------:deny
                      group@:r-x-----------:-------:allow
                   everyone@:-w-p---A-W-Co-:-------:deny
                   everyone@:r-x---a-R-c--s:-------:allow
$
                           ||||||||||||||||:||||||+ inherited access
                             ||||||||||||||:||||||+ failed access
                             ||||||||||||||:|||||+--success access
                             ||||||||||||||:||||+-- no propagate
                             ||||||||||||||:|||+--- inherit only
                             ||||||||||||||:||+---- directory inherit
                             ||||||||||||||:|+----- file inherit
                             ||||||||||||||
                             ||||||||||||||+ sync
                             |||||||||||||+- change owner
                             ||||||||||||+-- write ACL
                             |||||||||||+--- read ACL
                             ||||||||||+---- write extended attributes
                             |||||||||+----- read extended attributes
                             ||||||||+------ write attributes
                             |||||||+------- read attributes
                             ||||||+-------- delete child
                             |||||+--------- delete
                             ||||+---------- append
                             |||+----------- execute
                             ||+------------ write data
                             |+------------- read data
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I cols
.ad
.br
.na
.B --width
.I cols
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output where the column width is forced to
.IR cols .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output with entries sorted across rather than down the page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints one entry per line of output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -@
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
except that extended attribute information overrides
.B ACL
information. An
.B @
is displayed after the file permission bits
for files that have extended attributes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
|
.B -v
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as
.BR -l ,
and in addition displays the extended system
attributes associated with the file when extended system attributes are fully
supported by the underlying file system. The option
.B -/
supports two
option arguments
.B c
(compact mode) and
.B v
(verbose mode).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B appendonly
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows a file to be modified only at offset
.BR EOF .
Attempts to modify a
file at a location other than
.B EOF
fails with
.BR EPERM .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B archive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if a file has been modified since it was last backed up. Whenever
.RB "the modification time (" mtime ") of a file is changed the " archive 
attribute is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B av_modified
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ZFS sets the anti-virus attribute which whenever a file's content or size
changes or when the file is renamed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B av_quarantined
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Anti-virus software sets to mark a file as quarantined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crtime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Timestamp when a file is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hidden
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a file as hidden.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B immutable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prevents the content of a file from being modified. Also prevents all
metadata changes, except for access time updates. When placed on a directory,
prevents the deletion and creation of files in the directories. Attempts to
modify the content of a file or directory marked as
.B immutable
fail with
.BR EPERM .
Attempts to modify any attributes (with the exception of access
time and, with the proper privileges, the
.BR immutable )
of a file marked
as
.B immutable
fails with
.BR EPERM .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nodump
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris systems have no special semantics for this attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nounlink
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prevents a file from being deleted. On a directory, the attribute also
prevents any changes to the contents of the directory. That is, no files
.RB "within the directory can be removed or renamed. The" " errno EPERM"
is returned when attempting to unlink or rename files and directories that
are marked as
.BR nounlink .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B readonly
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a file as
.BR readonly .
Once a file is marked as
.B readonly
the
content data of the file cannot be modified. Other metadata for the file can
still be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B system
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris systems have no special semantics for this attribute.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
The display characters used in compact mode
.RB ( "-/ c" )
are as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Attribute Name     Display
archive            A
hidden             H
readonly           R
system             S
appendonly         a
nodump             d
immutable          i
av_modified        m
av_quarantined     q
nounlink           u
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The display in verbose mode (/ v) uses full attribute names when it is set
and the name prefixed by 'no' when it is not set.
.sp
.LP
The attribute name
.B crtime
and all other timestamps are handled by the
option
.B -%
with the respective timestamp option arguments and also with
.B all
option argument. The display positions are as follows: The display
in verbose mode
.RB ( "-/ v" )
uses full attribute names  when it is set and
the name prefixed by
.B no
when it is not set. The attribute name
.B crtime
and all other timestamps are handled by the option
.B -%
with
the respective timestamp option arguments and also with
.B all
option
argument.
.sp
.LP
The display positions are as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
{||||||||||}
 |||||||||+- u (nounlink)
 ||||||||+-- q (av_quarantined)
 |||||||+--- m (av_modified)
 ||||||+---- i (immutable)
 |||||+----- d (nodump)
 ||||+------ a (appendonly)
 |||+------- S (system)
 ||+-------- R (readonly)
 |+--------- H (hidden)
 +---------- A (archive)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B atime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to
.BR -u .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crtime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the creation time of the file for sorting or printing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ctime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to
.BR -c .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mtime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the last modification time of the file contents for sorting or
printing.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If extended system attributes are not supported or if the user does not have
.B read
permission on the file or if the
.B crtime
extended attribute
is not set,
.B crtime
is treated as a synonym for
.BR mtime .
.sp
.LP
When option argument
.B -all
is specified, all available timestamps are
printed which includes
.BR -atime ,
.BR -ctime ,
.B -mtime
and on the
extended system attribute supporting file systems,
.B -crtime
(create
time). The option
.B "-% all"
does not effect which timestamp is displayed
in long format and does not affect sorting.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --block-size
.I size
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display sizes in multiples of size. Size can be scaled by suffixing one of
.BR YyZzEePpTtGgMmKk .
Additionally, a
.B B
can be placed at the end to
indicate powers of 10 instead of 2. For example, .
.B 10mB
means blocks of
.B 10000000
bytes while
.B 10m
means blocks of \fB10*2^20 -- 10485760 --\fR bytes. This is mutually exclusive with the \fB-h\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB--color\fR \fB[=\fIwhen\fB]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--colour[=\fIwhen\fB]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display filenames using color on color-capable terminals.
.I when
is an
optional argument that determines when to display color output.
.sp
Possible values for
.I when
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B always
.ad
.br
.na
.B yes
.ad
.br
.na
.B force
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Always use color.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auto
.ad
.br
.na
.B tty
.ad
.br
.na
.B if-tty
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use color if a terminal is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no
.ad
.br
.na
.B never
.ad
.br
.na
.B none
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Never use color. This is the default
.RE

See
.B "COLOR OUTPUT"
for information on how to control the output
colors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --file-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a suffix after a file depending on it's type, similar to the
.B -F
option, except
.B *
is not appended to executable files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -si
.ad
.br
.na
.B --
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display human scaled sizes similar to the
.B -h
option, except values are
repeatedly divided by 1000 instead of 1024. The last option
.B --si
or
.B -h
determines the divisor used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR --time-style " style"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display times using the specified style. This does not effect the times
displayed for extended attributes
.RB ( -% ).
.sp
Possible values for
.I style
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B full-iso
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to
.BR -E .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B long-iso
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display in
.I "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM"
for all files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B iso
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display older files using
.I YYYY-MM-DD
and newer files with \fIMM-DD HH:MM\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B locale
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the default locale format for old and new files. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B +FORMAT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use a custom format. Values are the same as described in
.BR strftime (3C).
If a NEWLINE appears in the string, the first line is used for older files
and the second line is used for newer files. Otherwise, the given format is
used for all files.
.RE

.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/ls"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash
.RB ( / ),
doors with a trailing
greater-than sign
.RB ( > ),
executable files with a trailing asterisk
.RB ( * "), " FIFO s
with a trailing vertical bar
.RB ( | ),
symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign
.RB ( = ).
Follows
.B symlinks
named as
operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --file-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with
.B -F
with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
pairs is not considered an error:
.B -C
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -m
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -x
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -@
and
.B -l
(ell). The
.B -l
option overrides the other option specified in each pair.
.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
groups is not considered an error:
.B -C
and
.B -1
(one),
.B -H
and
.BR -L ,
.B -c
and
.BR -u ,
and
.B -e
and
.BR -E ,
and
.B -t
and
.BR -S .
The last option specifying a specific timestamp
.RB ( -c ,
.BR -u ,
.B -% atime
,
.BR "-% crtime" ,
.BR "-% ctime" ,
and \fB-% mtime\fR) determines the timestamps used for sorting or in long format
listings. The last option
.BR -t ,
.BR -S ,
or
.B -U
determines the
sorting behavior.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash
.RB ( / ),
doors with a trailing
greater-than sign
.RB ( > ),
executable files with a trailing asterisk
.RB ( * "), " FIFO s
with a trailing vertical bar
.RB ( | ),
symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign
.RB ( = ).
Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --file-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with
.B -F
with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following groups of mutually
exclusive options is not considered an error:
.B -C
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -m
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -x
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -@
and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -C
and
.B -1
(one),
.B -H
and
.BR -L ,
.B -c
and
.BR -u ,
.B -e
and
.BR -E ,
.B -t
and
.B -S
and
.BR -U .
The
last option specifying a specific timestamp
.RB ( -c ,
.BR -u ,
\fB-%
atime\fR ,
.BR "-% crtime" ,
.BR "-% ctime" ,
and
.BR "-% mtime" )
determines
the timestamps used for sorting or in long format listings. The last
.BR -t ,
.BR -S ,
or
.B -U
option determines the sorting behavior.
.SS "/usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash
.RB ( / ),
doors with a trailing
greater-than sign
.RB ( > ),
executable files with a trailing asterisk
.RB ( * "), " FIFO s
with a trailing vertical bar
.RB ( | ),
symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign
.RB ( = ).
Does not follow symlinks named as
operands unless the
.B -H
or
.B -L
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B --file-type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with
.B -F
with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Does not follow symlinks named as operands
unless the
.B -H
or
.B -L
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
pairs is not considered an error:
.B -C
and
.B -l
(ell), m and
\fB-l\fR(ell), \fB-x\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-@\fR and
.B -l
(ell),
.B -C
and
.B -1
(one),
.B -H
and -\fB-L\fR,
.B -c
and
.BR -u ,
.B -e
and
.BR -E ,
.B -t
and
.B -S
and
.BR -U .
The last option
specifying a specific timestamp
.RB ( -c ,
.BR -u ,
.B -% atime
, \fB-% crtime\fR,
.BR "-% ctime" ,
and
.BR "-% mtime" )
determines the timestamps used
for sorting or in long format listings. The last
.BR -t ,
.BR -S ,
or
.B -U
option determines the sorting behavior.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A path name of a file to be written. If the file specified is not found, a
diagnostic message is output on standard error.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B ls
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Viewing File Permissions
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display detailed information about a
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -l file.1
-rw-r--r--   1 gozer    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:15 file.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above
.RB ( -rw-r--r-- )
describes that the file
owner has read and write permissions, the owning group has read permissions,
and others have read permissions.

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display detailed information about a
directory.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -ld test.dir
drwxr-xr-x   2 gozer    staff          2 Mar 14 10:17 test.dir
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above
.RB ( drwxr-xr-x )
describes that the directory
owner has read, write, and search permissions, the owning group has read and
search permissions, and others have read and search permissions.

.sp
.LP
Another example of listing file permissions is as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -l file.2
-rw-rwl---   1 gozer    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:47 file.2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above
.RB ( -rw-rwl--- )
describes that the file
owner has read and write permissions, the owning group has read and write
permissions, and the file can be locked during access.

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying ACL Information on Files and Directories
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display verbose ACL information on a ZFS
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -v file.1
-rw-r--r--   1 marks    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:15 file.1
     0:owner@:execute:deny
     1:owner@:read_data/write_data/append_data/write_xattr/write_attributes
          /write_acl/write_owner:allow
     2:group@:write_data/append_data/execute:deny
     3:group@:read_data:allow
     4:everyone@:write_data/append_data/write_xattr/execute/write_attributes
          /write_acl/write_owner:deny
     5:everyone@:read_data/read_xattr/read_attributes/read_acl/synchronize
          :allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display compact ACL information on a ZFS
directory.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -dV test.dir
drwxr-xr-x   2 marks    staff          2 Mar 14 10:17 test.dir
            owner@:--------------:------:deny
            owner@:rwxp---A-W-Co-:------:allow
            group@:-w-p----------:------:deny
            group@:r-x-----------:------:allow
            everyone@:-w-p---A-W-Co-:------:deny
            everyone@:r-x---a-R-c--s:------:allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example illustrates the
.B "ls -v"
behavior when
listing ACL  information on a UFS file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ls -v file.3
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root        2703 Mar 14 10:59 file.3
     0:user::rw-
     1:group::r--               #effective:r--
     2:mask:r--
     3:other:r--
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Printing the Names of All Files
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the names of all files in the current
directory, including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), which normally
do not print:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls -a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Providing File Information
.sp
.LP
The following example provides file information:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -aisn
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command provides information on
.BR a ll
files, including those that
begin with a dot
.RB ( a ),
the
.BR i -number,
the memory address of the
i-node associated with the file\(emprinted in the left-hand column
.RB ( i );
the
.BR s ize
(in blocks) of the files, printed in the column to the right
of the i-numbers
.RB ( s );
finally, the report is displayed in the
\fBn\fRumeric version of the long list, printing the
.B UID
(instead of
user name) and
.B GID
(instead of group name) numbers associated with the
files.

.sp
.LP
When the sizes of the files in a directory are listed, a total count of
blocks, including indirect blocks, is printed.

.LP
.B Example 5
Providing Extended System Attributes Information
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ c file    (extended system attribute in compact mode)
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                         {AHRSadim-u}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example,
.B av_quarantined
is not set.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ v file (extended system attribute in verbose mode)
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                {archive,hidden,readonly,system,appendonly\e
                 nodump,immutable,av_modified,\e
                 noav_quarantined,nounlink}

example% ls -/ v file     (no extended system attribute)
-rw-r--r--  1 root    staff        0 May 16 14:48 file
               {}

example% ls -/ c file        (extended system attribute
                              supported file system)

-rw-r--r--  1 root staff        3 Jun  4 22:04 file
               {A------m--}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.B archive
and
.B av_modified
attributes are set by default on  an
extended system attribute supported file.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ c  -%crtime file

-rw-r--r--    root     root          0 May 10 14:17 file
               {AHRSadim-u}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example displays the timestamp as the creation time:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -l -%all file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17    file
                timestamp: atime    Jun 14 08:47:37 2007
                timestamp: ctime    May 10 14:20:23 2007
                timestamp: mtime    May 10 14:17:56 2007
                timestamp: crtime   May 10 14:17:56 2007

example% ls -%crtime -tl file*

-rw-r--r--   1 foo      staff          3 Jun  4 22:04 file1
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
-rw-r--r--   1 foo      staff          0 May  9 13:49 file.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example the files are sorted by creation time.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR ls :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR NLSPATH ,
and
.BR TZ .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B COLUMNS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines the user's preferred column position width for writing multiple
text-column output. If this variable contains a string representing a decimal
integer, the
.B ls
utility calculates how many path name text columns to
write
.RB "(see " -C )
based on the width provided. If
.B COLUMNS
is not set
or is invalid, 80 is used. The column width chosen to write the names of
files in any given directory is constant. File names are not be truncated to
fit into the multiple text-column output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LS_COLORS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines the coloring scheme used when displaying color output. If not set
and color output is specified, a default scheme is used. If TERM is not set,
no color output is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TERM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determine the terminal type. If this variable is unset or NULL, no color
output is generated regardless of the value of the --color option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
All information was written successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
group IDs for
.B "ls -l"
and
.BR "ls -g"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
user IDs for
.B "ls -l"
and
.BR "ls -o"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
terminal information database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/ls"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except
.BR -A ,
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR "-E, -h" ,
.BR -S ,
U
.BR -v ,
.BR -V ,
.BR -@ ,
.BR -/ ,
.BR -% ,
.BR --all ,
.BR --almost-all ,
.BR --block-size ,
.BR --classify ,
.BR --color ,
.BR --colour ,
.BR --dereference ,
.BR --dereference-command-line ,
.BR --escape ,
.BR --file-type ,
.BR --full-time ,
.BR --human-readable ,
.BR --ignore-backups ,
.BR --inode ,
.BR --no-group ,
.BR --numeric-uid-gid ,
.BR --reverse ,
.BR --recursive ,
.BR --si ,
.BR --size ,
and
.BR --time-style ,
see
.BR standards (5).
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except
.BR -A ,
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR "-E, -h" ,
.BR -S ,
U
.BR -v ,
.BR -V ,
.BR -@ ,
.BR -/ ,
.BR -% ,
.BR --all ,
.BR --almost-all ,
.BR --block-size ,
.BR --classify ,
.BR --color ,
.BR --colour ,
.BR --dereference ,
.BR --dereference-command-line ,
.BR --escape ,
.BR --file-type ,
.BR --full-time ,
.BR --human-readable ,
.BR --ignore-backups ,
.BR --inode ,
.BR --no-group ,
.BR --numeric-uid-gid ,
.BR --reverse ,
.BR --recursive ,
.BR --si ,
.BR --size ,
and
.BR --time-style ,
see
.BR standards (5).
.SS "/usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu6
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except
.BR -A ,
.BR -b ,
.BR -e ,
.BR "-E, -h" ,
.BR -S ,
U
.BR -v ,
.BR -V ,
.BR -@ ,
.BR -/ ,
.BR -% ,
.BR --all ,
.BR --almost-all ,
.BR --block-size ,
.BR --classify ,
.BR --color ,
.BR --colour ,
.BR --dereference ,
.BR --dereference-command-line ,
.BR --escape ,
.BR --file-type ,
.BR --full-time ,
.BR --human-readable ,
.BR --ignore-backups ,
.BR --inode ,
.BR --no-group ,
.BR --numeric-uid-gid ,
.BR --reverse ,
.BR --recursive ,
.BR --si ,
.BR --size ,
and
.BR --time-style ,
see
.BR standards (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR cp (1),
.BR setfacl (1),
.BR fgetattr (3C),
.BR strftime (3C),
.BR terminfo (4),
.BR acl (5),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR fsattr (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Unprintable characters in file names can confuse the columnar output
options.
.sp
.LP
The total block count is incorrect if there are hard links among the
files.
.sp
.LP
The sort order of
.B ls
output is affected by the locale and can be
overridden by the
.B LC_COLLATE
environment variable. For example, if
.B LC_COLLATE
equals
.BR C ,
dot files appear first, followed by names
beginning with upper-case letters, then followed by names beginning with
lower-case letters. But if
.B LC_COLLATE
equals
.BR en_US.ISO8859-1 ,
then leading dots as well as case are ignored in determining the sort
order.
