'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mach 1 "18 Jan 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mach \- display the processor type of the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmach\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mach
command displays the processor-type of the current host.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR arch (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B mach
and
.B "uname -p"
return equivalent values; therefore,
Independent Software Vendors (ISV) and  others who need to ascertain
processor type are encouraged to use
.B uname
with the
.B -p
option
instead of the
.B mach
command. The
.B mach
command is provided for
compatibility with previous releases, but generally its use is
discouraged.
