'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH machid 1 "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
machid, sun, iAPX286, i286, i386, i486, i860, pdp11, sparc, u3b, u3b2,
u3b5, u3b15, vax, u370 \- get processor type truth value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsun\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiAPX286\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBi386\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpdp11\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsparc\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBu3b\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBu3b2\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBu3b5\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBu3b15\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvax\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBu370\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The following commands will return a true value (exit code of 0) if you are
using an instruction set that the command name indicates.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sun
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a Sun system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B iAPX286
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a computer using an iAPX286 processor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B i386
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a computer using an iAPX386 processor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pdp11
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
 True if you are on a PDP-11/45\(tm or PDP-11/70\(tm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sparc
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a computer using a SPARC-family processor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u3b
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a 3B20 computer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u3b2
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a 3B2 computer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u3b5
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a 3B5 computer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u3b15
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a 3B15 computer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vax
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on a VAX-11/750\(tm or VAX-11/780\(tm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u370
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
True if you are on an IBM\(rg System/370\(tm computer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The commands that do not apply will return a false (non-zero) value. These
commands are often used within makefiles (see
.BR make (1S))
and shell
scripts (see
.BR sh (1))
to increase portability.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR make (1S),
.BR sh (1),
.BR test (1),
.BR true (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B machid
family of commands is obsolete. Use \fBuname -p\fR
and
.B "uname -m"
instead.
