'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mail 1 "24 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mail, rmail \- read mail or send mail to users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "Sending Mail"
.LP
.nf
\fBmail\fR [\fB-tw\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImessage_type\fR] \fIrecipient\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmail\fR [\fB-tw\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImessage_type\fR] \fIrecipient\fR...
.fi

.SS "Reading Mail"
.LP
.nf
\fBmail\fR [\fB-ehpPqr\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SS "Debugging"
.LP
.nf
\fBmail\fR [\fB-x\fR \fIdebug_level\fR] [\fIother_mail_options\fR] \fIrecipient\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A
.I recipient
is usually a domain style address
("\fIuser\fR@\fImachine\fR") or a user name recognized by \fBlogin\fR(1). When
.IR recipient s
are named,
.B mail
assumes a message is being sent. It
reads from the standard input up to an end-of-file (Control-d) or, if reading
from a terminal device, until it reads a line consisting of just a period. When
either of those indicators is received,
.B mail
adds the
.I letter
to the
.I mailfile
for each
.IR recipient .
.sp
.LP
A
.I letter
is composed of some
.I "header lines"
followed by a blank line
followed by the
.IR "message content" .
The
.I "header lines"
section of the
letter consists of one or more UNIX postmarks:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBFrom\fR \fIsender date_and_time\fR [\fBremote from\fR \fIremote_system_name\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
followed by one or more standardized message header lines of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword-name\fB:\fR [\fIprintable text\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.I keyword-name
is comprised of any printable, non-whitespace
characters other than colon
.RB (` : ').
A
.B MIME-version:
header line
indicates that the message is formatted as described in RFC 2045. A
.B Content-Length:
header line, indicating the number of bytes in the
.IR "message content" ,
is always present unless the letter consists of only
header lines with no message content. A
.B Content-Type:
header line that
describes the type of the
.I "message content"
(such as text/plain,
application/octet-stream, and so on) is also present, unless the letter
consists of only header lines with no message content. Header lines may be
continued on the following line if that line starts with white space.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Sending Mail"
.sp
.LP
The following command-line arguments affect sending mail:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I message_type
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
A
.B Message-Type:
line is added to the message header with the value of
.IR message_type .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
A
.B To:
line is added to the message header for each of the intended
.IR recipient s.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
A letter is sent to a remote recipient without waiting for the completion of
the remote transfer program.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a letter is found to be undeliverable, it is returned to the sender with
diagnostics that indicate the location and nature of the failure. If
.B mail
is interrupted during input, the message is saved in the file
.B dead.letter
to allow editing and resending.
.B dead.letter
is always appended to, thus
preserving any previous contents. The initial attempt to append to (or create)
.B dead.letter
is in the current directory. If this fails,
.B dead.letter
is appended to (or created in) the user's login directory. If the second
attempt also fails, no
.B dead.letter
processing is done.
.sp
.LP
.B rmail
only permits the sending of mail;
.BR uucp (1C)
uses \fBrmail\fR
as a security precaution. Any application programs that generate mail messages
should be sure to invoke
.B rmail
rather than
.B mail
for message
transport and/or delivery.
.sp
.LP
If the local system has the Basic Networking Utilities installed, mail can be
sent to a recipient on a remote system. There are numerous ways to address mail
to recipients on remote systems depending on the transport mechanisms available
to the local system. The two most prevalent addressing schemes are Domain-style
and UUCP-style.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Domain-style addressing
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Remote recipients are specified by appending an
.RB ` @ '
and domain (and
possibly sub-domain) information to the recipient name (such as
.BR user@sf.att.com ).
(The local system administrator should be consulted for
details on which addressing conventions are available on the local system.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UUCP-style addressing
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Remote recipients are specified by prefixing the recipient name with the
remote system name and an exclamation point, such as
.B sysa!user.
If
.BR csh (1)
is the default shell, \fBsysa\e!user\fR should be used. A series
of system names separated by exclamation points can be used to direct a letter
through an extended network (such as
.B sysa!sysb!sysc!user
or
.BR sysa\e!sysb\e!sysc\e!user ).
.RE

.SS "Reading Mail"
.sp
.LP
The following command-line arguments affect reading mail:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Test for the presence of mail.
.B mail
prints nothing.
.sp
An exit status of
.B 0
is returned if the user has mail. Otherwise, an exit
status of
.B 1
is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Similar to
.BR -e ,
but tests only for the presence of
.B new
mail.
.sp
An  exit status  of
.B 0
is returned if the user has new mail
to read,  an exit status of
.B 1
is returned if the            user has no
mail, or an exit status of
.B 2
is returned            if the user has mail
which has already been read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A window of headers are initially displayed rather than the latest message.
The display is followed by the
.B ?
prompt.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
All messages are printed without prompting for disposition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
All messages are printed with
.I all
header lines displayed, rather than
the default selective header line display.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.B mail
terminates after interrupts. Normally an interrupt causes only the
termination of the message being printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Messages are printed in first-in, first-out order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I file
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.B mail
uses
.I file
(such as
.BR mbox )
instead of the default
.IR mailfile .
.RE

.sp
.LP
.BR mail ,
unless otherwise influenced by command-line arguments, prints a
user's mail messages in last-in, first-out order. The default mode for printing
messages is to display only those header lines of immediate interest. These
include, but are not limited to, the UNIX
.B From
and
.B >From
postmarks,
.BR From: ,
.BR Date: ,
.BR Subject: ,
and
.B Content-Length:
header
lines, and any recipient header lines such as
.BR To: ,
.BR Cc: ,
.BR Bcc: ,
and so forth. After the header lines have been displayed,
.B mail
displays
the contents (body) of the message only if it contains no unprintable
characters. Otherwise,
.B mail
issues a warning statement about the message
having binary content and
.B not
display the content. This can be overridden
by means of the
.B p
command.
.sp
.LP
For each message, the user is prompted with a
.B ?
and a line is read from
the standard input. The following commands are available to determine the
disposition of the message:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B #
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print the number of the current message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print previous message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR <new-line>,+ ,
or
.BR n
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print the next message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ! command
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Escape to the shell to do
.IR command .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print message that arrived during the
.B mail
session.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR d ,
or
.BR dp
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Delete the current message and print the next message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.I n
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Delete message number
.IR n .
Do not go on to next message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dq
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Delete message and quit
.BR mail .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display a window of headers around current message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI h n
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display a window of headers around message number
.IR n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h a
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display headers of all messages in the user's
.IR mailfile .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h d
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Display headers of messages scheduled for deletion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
[
.IR persons " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Mail (and delete) the current message to the named
.IR persons .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print message number
.IR n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print current message again, overriding any indications of binary (that is,
unprintable) content.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Override default brief mode and print current message again, displaying all
header lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR q ,
or Control-d\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Put undeleted mail back in the
.I mailfile
and quit
.BR mail .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
[
.IR users " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Reply to the sender, and other
.IR users ,
then delete the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
[
.IR files " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Save message in the named
.I files
(\fBmbox\fR is default) and delete the
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B u
[
.IR n " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Undelete message number
.I n
(default is last read).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
[
.IR files " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Save message contents, without any header lines, in the named
.I files
(\fBmbox\fR is default) and delete the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B x
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Put all mail back in the
.I mailfile
unchanged and exit
.BR mail .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B y
[
.IR files " ]"
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Same as
.B -w
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Print a command summary.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When a user logs in, the presence of mail, if any, is usually indicated. Also,
notification is made if new mail arrives while using
.BR mail .
.sp
.LP
The permissions of
.I mailfile
can be manipulated using
.BR chmod (1)
in
two ways to alter the function of
.BR mail .
The other permissions of the file
can be read-write
.RB ( 0666 ),
read-only
.RB ( 0664 ),
or neither read nor
write
.RB ( 0660 )
to allow different levels of privacy. If changed to other
than the default (mode
.BR 0660 ),
the file is preserved even when empty to
perpetuate the desired permissions. (The administrator can override this file
preservation using the
.B DEL_EMPTY_MAILFILE
option of
.BR mailcnfg .)
.sp
.LP
The group
.B ID
of the mailfile must be
.B mail
to allow new messages to
be delivered, and the mailfile must be writable by group
.BR mail .
.SS "Debugging"
.sp
.LP
The following command-line arguments cause
.B mail
to provide debugging
information:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I debug_level
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B mail
creates a trace file containing debugging information.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B -x
option causes
.B mail
to create a file named
.BI /tmp/MLDBG process_id
that contains debugging information relating
to how
.B mail
processed the current message. The absolute value of
.I debug_level
controls the verboseness of the debug information.
.B 0
implies no debugging. If
.I debug_level
is greater than
.BR 0 ,
the debug
file is retained
.I only
if
.B mail
encountered some problem while
processing the message. If
.I debug_level
is less than
.BR 0 ,
the debug
file is always be retained. The
.I debug_level
specified via
.BR -x
overrides any specification of
.B DEBUG
in
.BR /etc/mail/mailcnfg .
The
information provided by the
.B -x
option is esoteric and is probably only
useful to system administrators.
.SS "Delivery Notification"
.sp
.LP
Several forms of notification are available for mail by including one of the
following lines in the message header.
.sp
.LP
\fBTransport-Options:\fR [ \fB/\fIoptions\fR ]
.sp
.LP
\fBDefault-Options:\fR [ \fB/\fIoptions\fR ]
.sp
.LP
\fB>To:\fR
.I recipient
[ \fB/\fIoptions\fR ]
.sp
.LP
Where the "/\fIoptions\fR" can be one or more of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /delivery
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Inform the sender that the message was successfully delivered to the
\fIrecipient\fR's mailbox.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /nodelivery
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Do not inform the sender of successful deliveries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /ignore
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Do not inform the sender of failed deliveries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /return
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Inform the sender if mail delivery fails. Return the failed message to the
sender.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /report
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Same as
.B /return
except that the original message is not returned.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The default is
.BR /nodelivery/return .
If contradictory options are used,
the first is recognized and later, conflicting, terms are ignored.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported for sending mail:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I recipient
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A domain style address ("\fIuser\fR@\fImachine\fR") or user login name
recognized by
.BR login (1).
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B mail
and
.B rmail
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31
bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR mail :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Determine the timezone used with date and time strings.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion when the user had mail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The user had no mail or an initialization error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred after initialization.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dead.letter
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
unmailable text
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
to identify sender and locate
.IR recipient s
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/mbox
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
saved mail
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $MAIL
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
variable containing path name of
.I mailfile
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR /tmp/MLDBG *
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
debug trace file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/mail/*.lock
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
lock for mail directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/mail/:saved
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
directory for holding temp files to prevent loss of data in the event of a
system crash
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI /var/mail/ user
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
incoming mail for
.IR user ;
that is, the
.I mailfile
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR var/tmp/ma *
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
temporary file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR mailx (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uuencode (1C),
.BR vacation (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Advanced User\&'s Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interpretation and resulting action taken because of the header lines
described in the Delivery Notifications section only occur if this version of
.B mail
is installed on the system where the delivery (or failure) happens.
Earlier versions of
.B mail
might not support any types of delivery
notification.
.sp
.LP
Conditions sometimes result in a failure to remove a lock file.
.sp
.LP
After an interrupt, the next message might not be printed. Printing can be
forced by typing a
.BR p .
