'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mailcompat 1 "4 Aug 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mailcompat \- provide SunOS compatibility for Solaris mailbox format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B mailcompat
is a program to provide SunOS
.RI 4. x
compatability for
the Solaris mailbox format. You would typically run
.B mailcompat
to be
able to read mail on a workstation running SunOS
.RI 4. x
when your mail
server is running Solaris.
.sp
.LP
Enabling
.B mailcompat
creates an entry in your
.B \&.forward
file,
if it exists.  If this file does not exist,
.B mailcompat
will create it.
Disabling
.B mailcompat
will remove the entry from the
.B
\&.forward
file, and if this was the only entry, will remove the entire file.
.sp
.LP
To execute
.BR mailcompat ,
log onto the Solaris mail server and enter
.B mailcompat
on the command line. Answer the queries provided by the
program.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B mailcompat
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (
2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of the
.B mailcompat
feature.
.sp
.LP
The following example enables the
.B mailcompat
feature for the user
"john".

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mailcompat
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
To enable the mailcompat feature a ".forward" file is created.
Would you like to enable the mailcompat feature? Y
Mailcompat feature ENABLED.Run mailcompat with no arguments to remove it
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example disables the
.B mailcompat
feature for the user
"john".

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mailcompat
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
You have a .forward file in your home directory  containing:
    "|/usr/bin/mailcompat johns"
Would you like to remove it and disable the mailcompat feature? y
Back to normal reception of mail.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~/.forward
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
list of recipients for forwarding messages
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mailx (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
