'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mailstats 1 "24 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mailstats \- print statistics collected by sendmail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmailstats\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-c\fR ] [\fB-C\fR \fIconfigfile\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIstatisticsfile\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-P\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mailstats
utility prints out the statistics collected by the
.BR sendmail (1M)
program on mailer usage. These statistics are collected
if the file indicated by the
.B StatusFile
configuration option of
.B sendmail
(defined in
.BR /etc/mail/sendmail.cf )
exists. The default
statistics file is
.BR /etc/mail/statistics .
.sp
.LP
To enable
.BR mailstats ,
you must, as root, touch
.BR /etc/mail/statistics .
See the
.B StatusFile
processing option in
.BR sendmail (1M).
.sp
.LP
.B mailstats
first prints the time that the statistics file was created
and the last time it was modified. Then, the statistics for each mailer are
displayed on a single line, each with the following whitespace-separated
fields:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B M
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The mailer number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msgsfr
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Number of messages from the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bytes_from
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Kbytes from the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msgsto
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Number of messages to the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bytes_to
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Kbytes to the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msgsrej
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Number of messages rejected by the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msgsdis
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Number of messages discarded by the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msgsqur
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Number of messages quarantined by the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Mailer
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The name of the mailer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The display of statistics described above is followed by a separation line
containing only equal sign
.RB ( = )
characters. After the separation line,
a line preceded with a "\fBT\fR" and totaling the values for all of the
mailers is displayed. This is followed by another line preceded with a
"\fBC\fR" that lists the number of TCP connections.
.sp
.LP
To reinitialize the statistics file once a night, add an entry to root's
.BR crontab (1):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mailstats -p > /dev/null
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
.RB "Try to use " submit.cf " instead of the default " sendmail 
configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.I configfile
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specify a
.B sendmail
configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I statisticsfile
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Specify a
.B sendmail
statistics file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Do not display the name of the mailer in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Output information in program-readable mode and clear statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Output information in program-readable mode without clearing statistics.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B mailstats
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (
2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/null
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Zero-lined file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mail/statistics
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default
.B sendmail
statistics file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mail/sendmail.cf
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Default
.B sendmail
configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsndmu
_
Output StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR crontab (1),
.BR cron (1M),
.BR sendmail (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
