.\" @(#)map.1	1.1 16/09/12 Copyr 2016 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for map
.\"@@C@@
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH map 1 "2016/09/12" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
map \- shell built-in to control history editor mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B map
.PD 0
.B map \-r
.br
\fBmap \fImap_from map_to\fR [ \fIcomment\fR ]
.br
\fBmap \-u \fImap_from\fR
.PD
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
Handle history editor input mapping.
Input mapping in the history editor is automatically managed via
.B TERMCAP
for the cursor keys and via manual maps in the file
.BR $HOME/.bshmap .
The
.B map
command is only supported if
.B sh
was compiled with support for history editing.
.LP
If the
.B map
command is called without arguments, it prints the current input mapping.
.LP
If
.B map
is called with
.BR \-r ,
all current mappings are removed and the default mapping is reloaded from
.B TERMCAP
and
.BR $HOME/.bshmap .
Call
.B map \-r
after changing
.BR TERM ,
.B TERMCAP
or
.B TERMPATH
or when a change was made in the file
.BR $HOME/.bshmap .
.LP
It
.B map
is called with two or three arguments, a new mapping is set up.
The parameters
.I map_from
and
.I map_to
may need quoting to be correctly passed to the mapping engine.
.LP
Call
.BI "map \-u" " map_from
to unmap an existing mapping.
The parameter
.I map_from
needs quoting for both the input mapper and the shell
to be correctly passed to the mapping engine.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH FILES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bosh (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
J\*org Schilling
D-13353 Berlin
Germany
.fi
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to:
.PP
.B
joerg.schilling@fokus.fraunhofer.de
or
.B
joerg@schily.net
