'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mconnect 1 "28 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mconnect \- connect to SMTP mail server socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmconnect\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mconnect
utility opens a connection to the mail server on a given
host, so that it can be tested independently of all other mail software. If
no host is given, the connection is made to the local host. Servers expect
to speak the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (\fBSMTP\fR) on this connection.
Exit by typing the
.B quit
command. Typing
.B EOF
sends an end of file
to the server. An interrupt closes the connection immediately and exits.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fIport\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specify the port number instead of the default
.B SMTP
port (number 25)
as the next argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
.B Raw
mode: disable the default line buffering and input handling. This
produces an effect similar to
.BR telnet (1)
to port number 25.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hostname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name of a given host.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B mconnect
command is IPv6-enabled. See
.BR ip6 (7P).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/mail/sendmail.hf
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Help file for
.B SMTP
commands
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsndmu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR telnet (1),
.BR sendmail (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ip6 (7P)
.sp
.LP
Postel, Jonathan B.,
.IR "RFC 821, Simple Mail Transfer Protocol" ,
Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern California, August
1982.
