'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mcs 1 "5 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mcs \- manipulate the comment section of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmcs\fR [\fB-cdpVz\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIname\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mcs
command is used to manipulate a section, by default the
\fB\&.comment\fR section, in an \fBELF\fR object file. It is used to add to,
delete, print, and compress the contents of a section in an
.B ELF
object
file, and print only the contents of a section in a
.B COFF
object file.
.B mcs
cannot add, delete, or compress the contents of a section that is
contained within a segment.
.sp
.LP
If the input file is an archive (see
.BR ar.h (3HEAD)),
the archive is
treated as a set of individual files. For example, if the
.B -a
option is
specified, the string is appended to the comment section of each \fBELF\fR
object file in the archive; if the archive member is not an
.B ELF
object
file, then it is left unchanged.
.sp
.LP
.B mcs
must be given one or more of the options described below. It
applies, in order, each of the specified options to each file.
.sp
.LP
For operations other than delete, if the object does not already contain a
section with the specified name,
.B mcs
will create a new empty section with
that name before performing the specified operation.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I string
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Appends
.I string
to the comment section of the
.B ELF
object files. If
.I string
contains embedded blanks, it must be enclosed in quotation
marks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Compresses the contents of the comment section of the
.B ELF
object files.
All duplicate entries are removed. The ordering of the remaining entries is not
disturbed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Deletes the contents of the specified section from the
.B ELF
object files.
The section header for the comment section is also removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I name
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the name of the section to access if other than \fB\&.comment\fR. By
default,
.B mcs
deals with the section named \fB\&.comment\fR. This option
can be used to specify another section.
.B mcs
can take multiple
.BR -n
options to allow for specification of  multiple sections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prints the contents of the comment section on the standard output. Each
section printed is tagged by the name of the file from which it was extracted,
using the format \fIfile\fB[\fImember_name\fB]:\fR for archive files
and \fIfile\fB:\fR for other files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prints on standard error the version number of
.BR mcs .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Replaces any
.B SHT_PROGBITS
sections with zeros while retaining the
original attributes of the sections.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Printing a file's comment section
.sp
.LP
The following entry

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmcs -p elf.file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints the comment section of the file
.BR elf.file .

.LP
.B Example 2
Appending a string to a comment section
.sp
.LP
The following entry

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmcs -a  xyz elf.file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
appends string
.B xyz
to \fBelf.file\fR's comment section.

.LP
.B Example 3
Stripping a specified non-allocable section
.sp
.LP
Although used primarily with comment sections,
.B mcs
can operate on any
non-allocable section. In contrast to the
.B strip
command, which removes a
predefined selection of non-allocable sections,
.B mcs
can be used to delete
a specific section. The following entry

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmcs -d -n .annotate elf.file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
removes the section named \fB\&.annotate\fR from the file \fBelf.file\fR.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/mcs*
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
temporary files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR as (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR strip (1),
.BR ar.h (3HEAD),
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR tmpnam (3C),
.BR a.out (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When
.B mcs
deletes a section using the
.B -d
option, it tries to bind
together sections of type
.B SHT_REL
and target sections pointed to by the
.B sh_info
section header field. If one is to be deleted,
.B mcs
attempts
to delete the other of the pair.
.sp
.LP
By using the
.B -z
option, it is possible to make an object file by
removing the contents of
.B SHT_PROGBITS
sections while retaining the object
file's original structure as an
.B ELF
file. The need for use of the
.B -z
option is limited. However, the option can be used to deliver an
object file when the contents of
.B SHT_PROGBITS
sections are not
relevant.
