'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mesg 1 "31 Oct 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mesg \- permit or deny messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmesg\fR [\fB-n\fR | \fB-y\fR | n | y]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mesg
utility will control whether other users are allowed to send
messages via
.BR write (1),
.BR talk (1),
or other utilities to a terminal
device. The terminal device affected is determined by searching for the
first terminal in the sequence of devices associated with standard input,
standard output, and standard error, respectively. With no arguments,
\fBmesg\fR reports the current state without changing it. Processes with
appropriate privileges may be able to send messages to the terminal
independent of the current state.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR|\fBn\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Denies permission to other users to send message to the terminal. See
.BR write (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-y\fR|\fBy\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Grants permission to other users to send messages to the terminal.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR mesg :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
if messages are receivable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
if messages are not receivable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
on error.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/tty*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
terminal devices
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/pts/*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
terminal devices
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR talk (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
