'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mixerctl 1 "30 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mixerctl \- audio mixer control command line application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-iv\fR] [\fB-C\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIcontrol\fR [\fB-w\fR \fIvalue\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIfile\fR | \fB-r\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mixerctl
command is used to control various features of the audio
mixer and to get information about the audio mixer and the audio device.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. If no options are specified, option
.B -i
is assumed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The command applies to all audio devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I control
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Indicates a control to access. If
.B -w
is not supplied, the information
about the control, including its current value, are printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Prints a dump of the entire set of controls for the audio device including
current and possible settings for each control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I dev
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.I dev
argument specifies an alternate audio control device for the
command to use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Prints the audio device type information for the device and other related
details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I file
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Saves control values to
.IR file .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I file
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Restores control values previously saved to
.IR file .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I value
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Changes the setting of the named control to the given value. The format of
the value depends on the type of the control.
.sp
For boolean controls, the value can be either \fB\&'on'\fR or
\fB\&'off'\fR. For enumerations, \fIvalue\fR is one of the possible strings
given in the control information. For stereo values,
.I value
takes the
form of either a pair of integers (\fB0-100\fR, inclusive) separated by a
colon or a single integer by itself. If two integers are supplied, they
refer to the left and right values, respectively. If only a single value is
supplied, then
.I value
applies to both channels.
.sp
For example,
.B 50:100
means 50% volume on the left channel and full
volume on the right. A value of
.B 0
means silence on both channels. For
monophonic (mono) values, the number is a single integer from 0-100,
inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Verbose mode. Prints additional information about the device and operation
being performed. This option implies the
.B -i
option.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIODEV
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If the
.B -d
and
.B -a
options are not specified, the \fBAUDIODEV\fR
environment variable is consulted. If set,
.B AUDIODEV
contains the full
path name of the user's default audio device. The default audio device is
converted into a control device, and then used. If the \fBAUDIODEV\fR
variable is not set,
.B /dev/audioctl
is used.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/dev/audioctl /dev/sound/{0.\|.\|.n}ctl\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWauda
_
Stability LevelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR audioconvert (1),
.BR audioplay (1),
.BR audiorecord (1),
.BR open (2),
.BR attributes (5)
