'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mkdir 1 "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mkdir\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-p\fR] \fIdir\fR...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBmkdir\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] \fIdir\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkdir
command creates the named directories in mode
.BR 777
(possibly altered by the file mode creation mask
.BR umask (1)).
.sp
.LP
Standard entries in a directory (for instance, the files "\fB\&.\fR", for
the directory itself, and "\fB\&.\|.\fR", for its parent) are made
automatically.
.B mkdir
cannot create these entries by name. Creation of
a directory requires write permission in the parent directory.
.sp
.LP
The owner-ID and group-ID of the new directories are set to the process's
effective user-ID and group-ID, respectively.
.B mkdir
calls the
.BR mkdir (2)
system call.
.SS "setgid and mkdir"
.sp
.LP
To change the
.B setgid
bit on a newly created directory, you must use
.B chmod g+s
or
.B "chmod g-s"
after executing
.BR mkdir .
.sp
.LP
The
.B setgid
bit setting is inherited from the parent directory.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkdir
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.BR /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
paths. It is invoked when
.B mkdir
is executed without
a pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/mkdir
or
.B /usr/bin/mkdir
executable.
.B mkdir
creates one or more
directories. By default, the mode of created directories is \fBa=rwx\fR
minus the bits set in
.BR umask (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR /usr/bin/mkdir :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I mode
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This option allows users to specify the mode to be used for new
directories. Choices for modes can be found in
.BR chmod (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
With this option,
.B mkdir
creates
.I dir
by creating all the
non-existing parent directories first. The mode given to intermediate
directories is the difference between
.B 777
and the bits set in the file
mode creation mask. The difference, however, must be at least \fB300\fR
(write and execute permission for the user).
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the
.B mkdir
built-in in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I mode
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--mode=\fImode\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Set the mode of created directories to
.IR mode .
.I mode
is symbolic
or octal mode as in
.BR chmod (1).
Relative modes assume an initial mode of
.BR a=rwx .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.br
.na
.B --parents
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Create any missing intermediate pathname components. For each dir operand
that does not name an existing directory, effects equivalent to those caused
by the following command shall occur:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mkdir -p -m $(umask -S),u+wx \e
     $(dirname dir) && mkdir [-m mode] dir
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Where the
.B -m
mode option represents that option supplied to the
original invocation of
.BR mkdir ,
if any. Each
.B dir
operand that
names an existing directory is ignored without error.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dir
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A path name of a directory to be created.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR mkdir
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR mkdir
.sp
.LP
The following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmkdir -p ltr/jd/jan\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
creates the subdirectory structure
.BR ltr/jd/jan .

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR mkdir :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
All the specified directories were created successfully or the
.BR -p
option was specified and all the specified directories now exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR umask (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
