'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mkmsgs 1 "26 Jul 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mkmsgs \- create message files for use by gettxt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmkmsgs\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIlocale\fR] \fIinputstrings\fR \fImsgfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mkmsgs
utility is used to create a file of text strings that can
be accessed using the text retrieval tools (see
.BR gettxt (1),
.BR srchtxt (1),
.BR exstr (1),
and
.BR gettxt "(3C)). It will take as"
input a file of text strings for a particular geographic locale (see
.BR setlocale (3C))
and create a file of text strings in a format that can
be retrieved by both
.BR gettxt (1)
and
.BR gettxt "(3C). By using the"
\fB-i\fR option, you can install the created file under the
\fB/usr/lib/\fIlocale\fR/\fIlocale\fR/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR directory
(\fBlocale\fR corresponds to the language in which the text strings are
written).
.sp
.LP
\fIinputstrings\fR is the name of the file that contains the original text
strings. \fImsgfile\fR is the name of the output file where \fBmkmsgs\fR
writes the strings in a format that is readable by
.BR gettxt (1)
and
.BR gettxt (3C).
The name of \fImsgfile\fR can be up to 14 characters in
length, but may not contain either \e\fB0\fR (null) or the
.B ASCII
code
for
.B /
(slash) or
.B :
(colon).
.sp
.LP
The input file contains a set of text strings for the particular geographic
locale. Text strings are separated by a newline character. Nongraphic
characters must be represented as alphabetic escape sequences. Messages are
transformed and copied sequentially from
.I inputstrings
to
\fImsgfile\fR. To generate an empty message in
.IR msgfile ,
leave an empty
line at the correct place in
.IR inputstrings .
.sp
.LP
Strings can be changed simply by editing the file
.IR inputstrings .
New
strings must be added only at the end of the file; then a new \fImsgfile\fR
file must be created and installed in the correct place. If this procedure
is not followed, the retrieval function will retrieve the wrong string and
software compatibility will be broken.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Overwrite
.IR msgfile ,
if it exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -i " locale"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Install \fImsgfile\fR in the
\fB/usr/lib/\fIlocale\fR/\fIlocale\fR/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR directory. Only
someone who is super user or a member of group
.B bin
can create or
overwrite files in this directory. Directories under
\fB/usr/lib/\fIlocale\fR will be created if they do not exist.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using the \fBmkmsgs\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following example shows an input message source file
.BR C.str :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
File %s:\et cannot be opened\en
%s: Bad directory\en
	.
	.
	.
write error\en
	.
	.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Using Input Strings From \fBC.str\fR to Create Text Strings
in a File
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the input strings from
.B C.str
to create
text strings in the appropriate format in the file
.B UX
in the
current directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mkmsgs C.str UX
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Using Input Strings From \fBFR.str\fR to Create Text
Strings in a File
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the input strings from
.B FR.str
to create
text strings in the appropriate format in the file
.B UX
in the directory
/usr/lib/locale/fr/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mkmsgs -i fr FR.str UX
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
These text strings would be accessed if you had set the environment
variable \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR=fr and then invoked one of the text retrieval
tools listed at the beginning of the
.B DESCRIPTION
section.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fBlocale\fB/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fB/*
\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
message files created by
.BR mkmsgs
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWloc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exstr (1),
.BR gettxt (1),
.BR srchtxt (1),
.BR gettxt (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
