'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH msgcvt 1 "9 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msgcvt \- convert message file to and from HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsgcvt\fR [\fB-hmr\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B msgcvt
reads a
.BR gencat (1)
format file on the standard input and
converts it to
.B HTML
on the standard output. The input file must
contain the control statement \fB$quote "\fR and use the \fB"\fR character
to quote message text. The output is in a form suitable for automatic
translation by web sites such as http://babelfish.altavista.com\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.br
.na
.B --html
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Generate
.B HTML
from
.BR gencat (1)
input.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.br
.na
.B --msg
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Generate a
.BR gencat (1)
message file from (presumably translated)
.BR HTML .
Wide characters are UTF-8 encoded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.br
.na
.B --raw
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The message file is raw message text, one message per line, with no quoting
or line numbering.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
One or more specified jobs does not exist.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Generating a
.B gencat
Message Catalog File
.sp
.LP
The following example generates a
.BR gencat (1)
message catalog file from
an HTML file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% cat example.html | msgcvt -m > examplecat
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
Glenn Fowler,
.B gsf@research.att.com
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWastdev
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gencat (1),
.BR msgcc (1),
.BR msggen (1),
.BR attributes (5)
