'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH msgfmt 1 "17 Sep 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msgfmt \- create a message object from a message file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsgfmt\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdir\fR | \fB-\(midirectory\fR=\fIdir\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR | \fB-\(miuse-fuzzy\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIoutput-file\fR | \fB-\(mioutput-file\fR=\fIoutput-file\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-\(mistrict\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-\(miverbose\fR] \fIfilename\fR.po.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgfmt
utility creates message object files from portable object
files (\fIfilename\fB\&.po\fR), without changing the portable object
files.
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.po\fR file contains messages displayed to users by system
commands or by application programs. \fB\&.po\fR files can be edited. The
messages in these files can be rewritten in any language supported by the
system.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR xgettext (1)
command can be used to create \fB\&.po\fR files from
script or programs.
.sp
.LP
.B msgfmt
interprets data as characters according to the current setting
of the
.B LC_CTYPE
locale category or according to the codeset specified
in the \fB\&.po\fR file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I dir
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-\(midirectory=\fIdir\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Adds
.I dir
to the list for input files search.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-\(miuse-fuzzy\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Uses fuzzy entries in output. If this option is not specified, fuzzy
entries are not included into the output. These options are ignored if
Solaris message catalogs are processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Directs the utility to generate the GNU-compatible message catalog file.
This option cannot be specified with the
.B -s
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I output-file
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-\(mioutput=\fIoutput-file\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Specifies the output file name as
.IR output-file .
All domain directives
and duplicate msgids in the .\fBpo\fR file are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Directs the utility to generate the Solaris message catalog file. This
option cannot be specified with the
.B -g
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\(mistrict\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Directs the utility to append the suffix \fB\&.mo\fR to the generating
message object file name if it doesn't have this suffix. This option is
ignored if Solaris message catalogs are processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.br
.na
\fB-\(miverbose\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Verbose. Lists duplicate message identifiers if Solaris message catalog
files are processed. Message strings are not redefined.
.sp
If GNU-compatible message files are processed, this option detects and
diagnoses input file anomalies which might represent translation errors. The
msgid and msgstr strings are studied and compared. It is considered abnormal
if one string starts or ends with a newline while the other does not. Also,
if the string represents a format string used in a printf-like function,
both strings should have the same number of % format specifiers, with
matching types. If the flag
.B c-format
appears in the special comment
\&'\fB#\fR' for this entry, a check is performed.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The format of portable object files (\fB\&.po\fR files) is defined as
follows. Each \fB\&.po\fR file contains one or more lines, with each line
containing either a comment or a statement. Comments start the line with a
pound sign (\fB#\fR) and end with the newline character. All comments
(except special comments described later) and empty lines are ignored. The
format of a statement is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIdirective\fR     \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Each
.I directive
starts at the beginning of the line and is separated
from
.I value
by white space (such as one or more space or tab
characters).
.I value
consists of one or more quoted strings separated by
white space. Use any of the following types of directives for the Solaris
message file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
domain \fIdomainname\fR
msgid \fImessage_identifier\fR
msgstr \fImessage_string\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For a GNU-compatible message file, use any of the following types of
directives:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
domain \fIdomainname\fR
msgid \fImessage_identifier\fR
msgid_plural \fIuntranslated_string_plural\fR
msgstr \fImessage_string\fR
msgstr[\fIn\fR] \fImessage_string\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The behavior of the
.B domain
directive is affected by the options used.
See OPTIONS for the behavior when the
.B -o
or \fB-\(mioutput-file\fR
options are specified. If the
.B -o
or \fB-\(mioutput-file\fR options are
not specified, the behavior of the
.B domain
directive is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
All msgids from the beginning of each \fB\&.po\fR file to the first
.B domain
directive are put into a default message object file. The
default message object file is named
.BR messages.mo ,
if the Solaris
message catalog file format is used to generate the message object file or
if the \fB-\(mistrict\fR option is specified. Otherwise, the default message
object file is named
.BR messages .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When \fBmsgfmt\fR encounters a \fBdomain\fR
.I domainname
directive in
the \fB\&.po\fR file, all following msgids until the next \fBdomain\fR
directive are put into the message object file, named
.BR domainname.mo ,
if the Solaris message catalog file format is used to generate the message
object file or if the \fB-\(mistrict\fR option is specified. Otherwise, the
msgids are put into the message object file named
.BR domainname .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Duplicate msgids are defined in the scope of each domain. That is, a msgid
is considered a duplicate only if the identical msgid exists in the same
domain.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
All duplicate msgids are ignored.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgid
directive specifies the value of a message identifier
associated with the directive that follows it. The \fBmsgid_plural\fR
directive specifies the plural form message specified to the plural message
handling functions
.BR ngettext() ,
.BR dngettext() ,
or
.BR dcngettext() .
The
.I message_identifier
string identifies a target
.RB "string to be used at retrieval time. Each statement containing a" " msgid"
directive must be followed by a statement containing a
.BR msgstr
directive or \fBmsgstr\fR[\fIn\fR] directives.
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgstr
directive specifies the target string associated with the
.I message_identifier
string declared in the immediately preceding
.B msgid
directive.
.sp
.LP
The directive \fBmsgstr\fR[\fIn\fR] (where \fIn\fR = 0, 1, 2, .\|.\|.)
specifies the target string to be used with plural form handling functions
.BR ngettext() ,
.BR dngettext() ,
and
.BR dcngetttext() .
.sp
.LP
Message strings can contain the escape sequences \fB\en\fR for newline,
\fB\et\fR for tab, \fB\ev\fR for vertical tab, \fB\eb\fR for backspace,
\fB\er\fR for carriage return, \fB\ef\fR for formfeed, \fB\e\e\fR for
backslash, \fB\e"\fR for  double quote, \fB\ea\fR for alarm, \fB\eddd\fR for
octal bit pattern, and \fB\exDD\fR for hexadecimal bit pattern.
.sp
.LP
Comments for a GNU-compatible message file should be in one of the
following formats (the
.B msgfmt
utility will ignore these comments when
processing Solaris message files):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fItranslator-comments\fR
#. \fIautomatic-comments\fR
#: \fIreference\fR..
#, \fIflag\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The '\fB#:\fR' comments indicate the location of the msgid string in the
source files in \fIfilename\fR:\fIline\fR format. The '\fB#\fR', '\fB#.\fR',
and '\fB#:\fR' comments are informative only and are silently ignored by the
.B msgfmt
utility. The '\fB#,\fR' comments require one or more flags
separated by the comma character. The following \fIflag\fRs can be
specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fuzzy
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This flag can be inserted by the translator. It shows that the \fBmsgstr\fR
string might not be a correct translation (anymore). Only the translator can
judge if the translation requires further modification or is acceptable as
is. Once satisfied with the translation, the translator removes this
.B fuzzy
flag. If this flag is specified, the
.B msgfmt
utility will
not generate the entry for the immediately following msgid in the output
message catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c-format
.ad
.br
.na
.B no-c-format
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The
.B c-format
flag indicates that the
.B msgid
string is used as a
format string by printf-like functions. In case the
.B c-format
flag is
given for a string, the
.B msgfmt
utility does some more tests to check
the validity of the translation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In the GNU-compatible message file, the
.B msgid
entry with empty string
("") is called the header entry and treated specially. If the message string
for the header entry contains \fBnplurals\fR=\fIvalue\fR, the value
indicates the number of plural forms. For example, if \fBnplurals\fR=4,
there are four plural forms. If
.B nplurals
is defined, the same line
should contain \fBplural=\fIexpression\fR, separated by a semicolon
character. The
.I expression
is a C language expression to determine
which version of \fBmsgstr\fR[\fIn\fR] is to be used based on the value of
.IR n ,
the last argument of
.BR ngettext() ,
.BR dngettext() ,
or
.BR dcngettext() .
For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nplurals=2; plural= n == 1 ? 0 : 1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
indicates that there are two plural forms in the language. msgstr[0] is
used if n == 1, otherwise msgstr[1] is used. For another example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nplurals=3; plural= n == 1 ? 0 : n == 2 ? 1 : 2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
indicates that there are three plural forms in the language. msgstr[0] is
used if n == 1, msgstr[1] is used if n == 2, otherwise msgstr[2] is used.
.sp
.LP
If the header entry contains a \fBcharset\fR=\fIcodeset\fR string, the
.I codeset
is used to indicate the codeset to be used to encode the
message strings. If the output string's codeset is different from the
message string's codeset, codeset conversion from the message string's
codeset to the output string's codeset will be performed upon the call of
.BR gettext() ,
.BR dgettext() ,
.BR dcgettext() ,
.BR ngettext() ,
.BR dngettext() ,
and
.B dcngettext()
for the GNU-compatible message
catalogs. The output string's codeset is determined by the current locale's
codeset (the return value of
.BR nl_langinfo(CODESET ))
by default, and can
be changed by the call of
.BR bind_textdomain_codeset() .
.SS "Message catalog file format"
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgfmt
utility can generate the message object both in Solaris
message catalog file format and in GNU-compatible message catalog file
format. If the
.B -s
option is specified and the input file is a Solaris
\fB\&.po\fR file, the \fBmsgfmt\fR utility generates the message object in
Solaris message catalog file format. If the
.B -g
option is specified and
the input file is a GNU \fB\&.po\fR file, the \fBmsgfmt\fR utility generates
the message object in GNU-compatible message catalog file format. If neither
the
.B -s
nor
.B -g
option is specified, the
.B msgfmt
utility
determines the message catalog file format as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the \fB\&.po\fR file contains a valid GNU header entry (having an empty
string for
.BR msgid ),
the
.B msgfmt
utility uses the GNU-compatible
message catalog file format.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Otherwise, the
.B msgfmt
utility uses the Solaris message catalog file
format.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the
.B msgfmt
utility determined that the Solaris message catalog
file format is used, as above, but found the \fB\&.po\fR file contains
directives that are specific to the GNU-compatible message catalog file
format, such as \fBmsgid_plural\fR and \fBmsgstr\fR[\fIn\fR], the
.B msgfmt
utility handles those directives as invalid specifications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating message objects from message files
.sp
.LP
In this example,
.B module1.po
and
.B module2.po
are portable message
objects files.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat module1.po\fR
# default domain "messages.mo"
msgid  "msg 1"
msgstr "msg 1 translation"
#
domain "help_domain"
msgid  "help 2"
msgstr "help 2 translation"
#
domain "error_domain"
msgid  "error 3"
msgstr "error 3 translation"
example% \fBcat module2.po\fR
# default domain "messages.mo"
msgid  "mesg 4"
msgstr "mesg 4 translation"
#
domain "error_domain"
msgid  "error 5"
msgstr "error 5 translation"
#
domain "window_domain"
msgid  "window 6"
msgstr "window 6 translation"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command will produce the output files
.BR messages.mo ,
.BR help_domain.mo ,
and
.B error_domain.mo
in Solaris message catalog
file format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmsgfmt module1.po\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command will produce the output files
.BR messages.mo ,
.BR help_domain.mo ,
.BR error_domain.mo ,
and
.B window_domain.mo
in
Solaris message catalog file format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmsgfmt module1.po module2.po\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command will produce the output file
.B hello.mo
in
Solaris message catalog file format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmsgfmt -o hello.mo module1.po module2.po\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environmental
variables that affect the execution of
.BR msgfmt :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWloc
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR xgettext (1),
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Installing message catalogs under the C locale is pointless, since they are
ignored for the sake of efficiency.
