'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH msgget 1 "9 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get a message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsgget\fR \fIlocale\fR [\fIcommand\fB:\fR]\fIcatalog\fR [\fIset\fR.]\fInumber\fR [\fItext\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B msgget
gets the message corresponding to the parameters. See
.BR OPERANDS .
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I catalog
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies the message catalog name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I command
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies command-specific message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I locale
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies the locale. If
.I locale
is
.B -
then the current locale is
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB[\fIset\fB].\fInumber\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Identifies the message by message number and an optional message set. If
specified as
.B -
, the message set and number are determined by looking
up text in the corresponding C locale message catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I text
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies the text of the message to be output upon error.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Getting a Message in the Current Locale
.sp
.LP
The following example gets
.B "msg 1"
in the current locale from message
catalog
.BR hello :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% msgget - hello 1
hello world
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
Glenn Fowler,
.B gsf@research.att.com
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWastdev
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iconv (1),
.BR msgcc (1),
.BR msggen (1),
.BR attributes (5)
