'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH msggen 1 "9 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msggen \- generate a machine independent formatted message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsggen\fR [\fB-fls\fR] \fIcatfile\fR [\fImsgfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmsggen\fR merges the message text source file \fImsgfile\fR into a
machine independent formatted message catalog
.IR catfile .
The file
\fIcatfile\fR is created if it does not already exist. If \fIcatfile\fR does
exist, its messages are included in the new
.IR catfile .
If set and
message numbers collide, the new message text defined in \fImsgfile\fR
replaces the old message text currently contained in
.IR catfile .
.sp
.LP
Non-ASCII characters must be UTF-8 encoded.
.BR iconv (1)
can be used to
convert to/from UTF-8.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--format\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
List the \fBprintf\fR(3C) format signature for each message in
\fIcatfile\fR. A format signature is one line containing one character for
each format specification:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
char
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
double
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B D
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
long double
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBf\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
float
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
short
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B i
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
int
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B j
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
long long
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
long
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
void*
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
string
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B t
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
ptrdiff_t
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B z
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
size_t
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
unknown
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.br
.na
.B --list
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
List \fIcatfile\fR in UTF-8 msgfile form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
.B --set
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Convert the \fIcatfile\fR to a message set number and print the number on
the standard output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIcatfile\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Machine independent formatted message catalog file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImsgfile\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Message text source file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Message text source files are in
.BR gencat (1)
format, defined as
follows. The fields of a message text source line are separated by a single
blank character. Any other blank characters are considered to be part of the
subsequent field. The
.B NL_*
constants are defined in one or both of
\fB<limits.h>\fR and \fB<nl_types.h>\fR\&.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB$\fR \fIcomment\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A line beginning with a
.B $
followed by a blank character is treated as
a comment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB$delset\fR \fIn comment\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line deletes message set
.I n
from an existing message catalog.
\fIn\fR denotes the set number
.BR "[1, NL_SETMAX]" .
Any text following the
set number is treated as a comment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB$quote\fR \fIc\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line specifies an optional quote character
.IR c ,
which can be used
to surround message-text so that trailing spaces or empty messages are
visible in a message source line. By default, or if an empty \fB$quote\fR
directive is supplied, no quoting of message-text is recognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB$set\fR \fIn comment\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line specifies the set identifier of the following messages until the
next
.B $set
or end-of-file (\fBEOF\fR) appears.
.I n
denotes the set
identifier, which is defined as a number in the range
.BR "[1, NL_SETMAX]" .
Set numbers need not be contiguous. Any text following the set identifier is
treated as a comment. If no
.B $set
directive is specified in a message
text source file, all messages are located in message set 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB$translation\fR \fIidentification YYYY-MM-DD\fB[,.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append translation information to the message catalog header. Only the
newest date for a given identification is retained in the catalog. Multiple
translation lines are combined into a single, comma-separated list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBm\fR \fImessage-text\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBm\fR denotes the message identifier, which is defined as a number in the
range
.BR "[1, NL_MSGMAX]" .
The message-text is stored in the message
catalogue with the set identifier specified by the last
.BR $set
directive, and with message identifier
.BR m .
If the message-text is
empty, and a blank character field separator is present, an empty string is
stored in the message catalogue. If a message source line has a message
number, but neither a field separator nor message-text, the existing message
with that number (if any) is deleted from the catalogue. Message identifiers
need not be contiguous. There are no
.I message-text
length
restrictions.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
One or more specified jobs does not exist.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBmsggen\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example generates a message catalog
.B xxx
from the
message file
.BR xxx.msg :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% msggen xxx xxx.msg
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
Glenn Fowler, \fBgsf@research.att.com\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWastdev
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gencat (1),
.BR iconv (1),
.BR msgcc (1),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
