'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nca 1 "22 Feb 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nca, snca \- the Solaris Network Cache and Accelerator (NCA)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Solaris Network Cache and Accelerator ("\fBNCA\fR") is a kernel module
designed to provide improved web server performance. The kernel module,
.BR ncakmod ,
services
.B HTTP
requests. To improve the performance of
servicing
.B HTTP
requests, the
.B NCA
kernel module maintains an
in-kernel cache of web pages. If the
.B NCA
kernel module cannot service
the request itself, it passes the request to the
.B http
daemon
(\fBhttpd\fR). It uses either a sockets interface, with family type
designated
.BR PF_NCA ,
or a private Solaris doors interface that is based
on the Solaris doors RPC mechanism, to pass the request.
.sp
.LP
To use the sockets interface, the web server must open a socket of family
type
.BR PF_NCA .
The
.B PF_NCA
family supports only
.BR SOCK_STREAM
and protocol 0, otherwise an error occurs.
.sp
.LP
The following features are not presently supported:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You cannot initiate a connection from a
.B PF_NCA
type socket. The
.BR connect (3SOCKET)
interface on
.B PF_NCA
fails.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
System calls that are associated with type
.BR SO_DGRAM ,
such as
.BR send() ,
.BR sendto() ,
.BR sendmsg() ,
.BR recv() ,
.BR recvfrom() ,
and
.BR recvmsg() ,
fails.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You cannot set TCP or IP options on a
.B PF_NCA
type socket through
.BR setsockopt (3SOCKET).
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B NCA
cache consistency is maintained by honoring
.BR HTTP
headers that deal with a given content type and expiration date, much the
same way as a proxy cache.
.sp
.LP
For configuration information, see \fISystem Administration Guide: IP
Services\fR
.sp
.LP
When native
.B PF_NCA
socket support does not exist in the web server,
the
.BR ncad_addr (4)
interface must be used to provide NCA support in that
web server.
.sp
.LP
\fBNCA\fR is intended to be run on a dedicated web server. Running other
large processes while running
.B NCA
might cause undesirable behavior.
.sp
.LP
\fBNCA\fR supports the logging of in-kernel cache hits. See
\fBncalogd.conf\fR(4). \fBNCA\fR stores logs in a binary format. Use the
\fBncab2clf\fR(1) utility to convert the log from a binary format to the
Common Log File format.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/nca/ncakmod.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Lists configuration parameters for
.BR NCA .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/nca/ncalogd.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Lists configuration parameters for
.B NCA
logging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/nca/nca.if\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Lists the physical interfaces on which
.B NCA
runs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/nca/ncaport.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
\fBncaport\fR configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hostname.{}{0-9}
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Lists all physical interfaces configured on the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Lists all host names associated with the server. Entries in this file must
match with entries in \fB/etc/hostname.{}{0-9}\fR for
.B NCA
to
function.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWncar (32-bit)
_
SUNWncarx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ncab2clf (1),
.BR ncakmod (1),
.BR close (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR sendfilev (3EXT),
.BR accept (3SOCKET),
.BR bind (3SOCKET),
.BR connect (3SOCKET),
.BR door_bind (3C),
.BR door_call (3C),
.BR door_create (3C),
.BR getsockopt (3SOCKET),
.BR listen (3SOCKET),
.BR setsockopt (3SOCKET),
.BR shutdown (3SOCKET),
.BR socket.h (3HEAD),
.BR socket (3SOCKET),
.BR ncad_addr (4),
.BR nca.if (4),
.BR ncakmod.conf (4),
.BR ncaport.conf (4),
.BR ncalogd.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: IP Services
