'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ncakmod 1 "28 Sep 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ncakmod \- start or stop the NCA kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod\fR \fBstart\fR | \fBstop\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ncakmod
is used to start or stop the Solaris Network Cache and
Accelerator ("NCA") kernel module.
.sp
.LP
When the
.B start
option is specified at the command-line, the
.B NCA
kernel module will be activated for all physical interfaces listed in the
.B nca.if
file. When the
.B ncakmod
command is invoked with the
.B stop
option, the NCA kernel module will print the following message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
To stop NCA, please set the status configuration parameter
to disable in ncakmod.conf and then reboot your system. See
the ncakmod.conf(4) manual page for more information.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that in order to properly stop
.B NCA
on your system, you must
first edit the
.BR ncakmod.conf (4)
file and set the status field to
"disable," then reboot your system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B start
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Starts the
.B NCA
kernel module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stop
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Describes the current method for stopping the
.B NCA
feature.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Starting and Stopping the NCA Feature
.sp
.LP
The following command is used to start the NCA feature:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod start\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/init.d/ncakmod
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The NCA kernel module startup script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/nca/ncakmod.conf
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies configuration options for the NCA kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWncar
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nca (1),
.BR ncab2clf (1),
.BR ncad_addr (4),
.BR nca.if (4),
.BR ncakmod.conf (4),
.BR ncalogd.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
