'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH newgrp 1 "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
newgrp \- log in to a new group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "Command"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/newgrp\fR [\fB-|\fR \fB-l\fR] [\fIgroup\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh Built-in"
.LP
.nf
\fBnewgrp\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh Built-in"
.LP
.nf
\fB*newgrp\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh93 Built-in"
.LP
.nf
\fB+newgrp\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Command"
.sp
.LP
The
.B newgrp
command logs a user into a new group by changing a user's
real and effective group ID. The user remains logged in and the current
directory is unchanged. The execution of
.B newgrp
always replaces the
current shell with a new shell, even if the command terminates with an error
(unknown group).
.sp
.LP
Any variable that is not exported is reset to null or its default value.
Exported variables retain their values. System variables (such as
.BR PS1 ,
.BR PS2 ,
.BR PATH ,
.BR MAIL ,
and
.BR HOME ),
are reset to default
values unless they have been exported by the system or the user. For
example, when a user has a primary prompt string (\fBPS1\fR) other than
\fB$\fR (default) and has not exported
.BR PS1 ,
the user's
.B PS1
is
set to the default prompt string
.BR $ ,
even if
.B newgrp
terminates
with an error. Note that the shell command
.B export
(see
.BR sh (1)
and
.BR set (1))
is the method to export variables so that they retain their
assigned value when invoking new shells.
.sp
.LP
With no operands and options,
.B newgrp
changes the user's group IDs
(real and effective) back to the group specified in the user's password file
entry. This is a way to exit the effect of an earlier \fBnewgrp\fR
command.
.sp
.LP
A password is demanded if the group has a password and the user is not
listed in
.B /etc/group
as being a member of that group. The only way to
create a password for a group is to use
.BR passwd (1),
then cut and paste
the password from
.B /etc/shadow
to
.BR /etc/group .
Group passwords are
antiquated and not often used.
.SS "sh Built-in"
.sp
.LP
Equivalent to
.B "exec newgrp"
\fIargument\fR where \fIargument\fR
represents the options and/or operand of the
.B newgrp
command.
.SS "ksh Built-in"
.sp
.LP
Equivalent to
.B exec
to\fB/bin/newgrp\fR
.I argument
where
\fIargument\fR represents the options and/or operand of the \fBnewgrp\fR
command.
.sp
.LP
On this man page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two
\fB*\fR (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by
.B **
that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
\fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SS "ksh93 Built-in"
.sp
.LP
Equivalent to
.B exec
to\fB/bin/newgrp\fR
.I argument
where
\fIargument\fR represents the options and/or operand of the \fBnewgrp\fR
command.
.sp
.LP
On this man page,
.BR ksh93 (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two
\fB+\fR (plus signs) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
They are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words, following a command preceded by
.B ++
that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
\fB=\fR sign and field splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR | \fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Change the environment to what would be expected if the user actually
logged in again as a member of the new group.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I group
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A group name from the group database or a non-negative numeric group ID.
Specifies the group ID to which the real and effective group IDs is set. If
\fIgroup\fR is a non-negative numeric string and exists in the group
database as a group name (see
.BR getgrnam (3C)),
the numeric group ID
associated with that group name is used as the group ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I argument
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
\fBsh\fR and \fBksh\fR only. Options and/or operand of the \fBnewgrp\fR
command.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR newgrp :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
If
.B newgrp
succeeds in creating a new shell execution environment,
whether or not the group identification was changed successfully, the exit
status is the exit status of the shell. Otherwise, the following exit value
is returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/group
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
System group file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
System password file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/newgrp, ksh, sh"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR set (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR getgrnam (3C),
.BR group (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
