'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH news 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
news \- print news items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnews\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIitems\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B news
is used to keep the user informed of current events. By
convention, these events are described by files in the directory
.BR /var/news .
.sp
.LP
When invoked without arguments,
.B news
prints the contents of all
current files in
.BR /var/news ,
most recent first, with each preceded by
an appropriate header.
.B news
stores the ``currency'' time as the
modification date of a file named
.B \&.news_time
in the user's home
directory (the identity of this directory is determined by the environment
variable
.B "$HOME );"
only files more recent than this
currency time are considered ``current.''
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
 Print all items, regardless of currency. In this case, the stored time is not
changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
 Report the names of the current items without printing their contents, and
without changing the stored time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
 report how many current items exist, without printing their names or
contents, and without changing the stored time. It is useful to include such an invocation of
.B news
in one's \fB\&.profile\fR file, or in the system's \fB/etc/profile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other arguments are assumed to be specific news items that are to be
printed.
.sp
.LP
If a
.I delete
is typed during the printing of a news item, printing
stops and the next item is started. Another
.I delete
within one second
of the first causes the program to terminate.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for a description of the
.B LC_CTYPE
environment
variable that affects the execution of
.BR news .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/profile
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/news/*
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.news_time
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWesu
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR profile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
