'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH NIS+ 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
NIS+, nis+, nis \- a new version of the network information name service
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
is a new version of the network information nameservice. This
version differs in several significant ways from version 2, which is
referred to as
.B NIS
or
.B YP
in earlier releases. Specific areas of
enhancement include the ability to scale to larger networks, security, and
the administration of the service.
.sp
.LP
The man pages for
.B NIS+
are broken up into three basic categories.
Those in section 1 are the user commands that are most often executed from a
shell script or directly from the command line. Section 1M man pages
describe utility commands that can be used by the network administrator to
administer the service itself. The
.B NIS+
programming
.B API
is
described by man pages in section 3NSL.
.sp
.LP
All commands and functions that use
.B NIS
version 2 are prefixed by the
letters
.B yp
as in
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR yp_match (3NSL),
and \fByp_first\fR(3NSL). Commands and functions that
use the new replacement software
.B NIS+
are prefixed by the letters
.B nis
as in
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nischown (1),
.BR nis_list (3NSL),
and \fBnis_add_entry\fR(3NSL). A complete list of
.B NIS+
commands is in
the
.B "LIST OF COMMANDS"
section.
.sp
.LP
This man page introduces the
.B NIS+
terminology. It also describes the
.B NIS+
namespace, authentication, and authorization policies.
.SH NIS+ NAMESPACE
.sp
.LP
The naming model of
.B NIS+
is based upon a tree structure. Each node in
the tree corresponds to an
.B NIS+
object. There are six types of
.B NIS+
objects:
.IR directory ,
.IR table ,
.IR group ,
.IR link ,
.IR entry ,
and
.IR private .
.SS "NIS+ Directory Object"
.sp
.LP
Each
.B NIS+
namespace has at least one
.B NIS+
directory object. An
.B NIS+
directory is like a UNIX file system directory which contains
other
.B NIS+
objects including
.B NIS+
directories. The
.B NIS+
directory that forms the root of the
.B NIS+
namespace is called the root
directory. There are two special
.B NIS+
directories:
.B org_dir
and
.BR groups_dir .
The
.B org_dir
directory consists of all the
system-wide administration tables, such as
.BR passwd ,
.BR hosts ,
and
.BR mail_aliases .
The
.B groups_dir
directory consists of
.BR NIS+
group objects which are used for access control. The collection of
.BR org_dir ,
.B groups_dir
and their parent directory is referred to as
an
.B NIS+
domain.
.B NIS+
directories can be arranged in a tree-like
structure so that the
.B NIS+
namespace can match the organizational or
administrative hierarchy.
.SS "NIS+ Table Object"
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
tables (not files), contained within
.B NIS+
directories,
store the actual information about some particular type. For example, the
.B hosts
system table stores information about the
.B IP
address of
the hosts in that domain.
.B NIS+
tables are multicolumn and the tables
can be searched through any of the searchable columns. Each table object
defines the schema for its table. The
.B NIS+
tables consist of
.B NIS+
entry objects. For each entry in the
.B NIS+
table, there is
an
.B NIS+
entry object.
.B NIS+
entry objects conform to the schema
defined by the
.B NIS+
table object.
.SS "NIS+ Group Object"
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
group objects are used for access control at group granularity.
.B NIS+
group objects, contained within the
.B groups_dir
directory of
a domain, contain a list of all the
.B NIS+
principals within a certain
.B NIS+
group. An
.B NIS+
principal is a user or a machine making
.B NIS+
requests.
.SS "NIS+ Link Object"
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
link objects are like UNIX symbolic file-system links and are
typically used for shortcuts in the
.B NIS+
namespace.
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL) for more information about the \fBNIS+\fR
objects.
.SH NIS+ NAMES
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
service defines two forms of names,
.I simple
names and
.I indexed
names. Simple names are used by the service to identify
.B NIS+
objects contained within the
.B NIS+
namespace. Indexed names
are used to identify
.B NIS+
entries contained within
.B NIS+
tables.
Furthermore, entries within
.B NIS+
tables are returned to the caller as
.B NIS+
objects of type
.IR entry .
.B NIS+
objects are implemented
as a union structure which is described in the file
\fB<rpcsvc/nis_object.x>\fR\&. The differences between the various types and
the meanings of the components of these objects are described in
.BR nis_objects (3NSL).
.SS "Simple Names"
.sp
.LP
Simple names consist of a series of labels that are separated by the
`.'(dot) character. Each label is composed of printable characters from the
ISO Latin 1 set. Each label can be of any nonzero length, provided that the
fully qualified name is fewer than
.B NIS_MAXNAMELEN
octets including the
separating dots. (See
.B <rpcsvc/nis.h>
for the actual value of
.B NIS_MAXNAMELEN
in the current release.) Labels that contain special
characters
.RB "(see " Grammar )
must be quoted.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
namespace is organized as a singly rooted tree. Simple names
identify nodes within this tree. These names are constructed such that the
leftmost label in a name identifies the leaf node and all of the labels to
the right of the leaf identify that object's parent node. The parent node is
referred to as the leaf's
.IR directory .
This is a naming directory and
should not be confused with a file system directory.
.sp
.LP
For example, the name
.I example.simple.name.
is a simple name with
three labels, where
.I example
is the leaf node in this name, the
directory of this leaf is
.I simple.name.
which by itself is a simple
name. The leaf of which is
.I simple
and its directory is simply
.IR name .
.sp
.LP
The function \fBnis_leaf_of\fR(3NSL) returns the first label of a simple
name. The function \fBnis_domain_of\fR(3NSL) returns the name of the
directory that contains the leaf. Iterative use of these two functions can
break a simple name into each of its label components.
.sp
.LP
The name `.' (dot) is reserved to name the
.I "global root"
of the
namespace. For systems that are connected to the Internet, this global root
is served by a Domain Name Service. When an
.B NIS+
server is serving a
root directory whose name is not `.'(dot) this directory is referred to as a
.IR "local root" .
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
names are said to be
.I "fully qualified"
when the name
includes all of the labels identifying all of the directories, up to the
global root. Names without the trailing dot are called
.I partially
qualified.
.SS "Indexed Names"
.sp
.LP
Indexed names are compound names that are composed of a search criterion
and a simple name. The search criterion component is used to select entries
from a table; the simple name component is used to identify the \fBNIS+\fR
table that is to be searched. The search criterion is a series of column
names and their desired values enclosed in bracket `\fB[\|]\fR' characters.
These criteria take the following form:
.sp
.LP
\fB[\fIcolumn_name\fB=\fIvalue\fB,\fR \fIcolumn_name\fR
\fB=\fIvalue\fR , .\|.\|. \fB]\fR
.sp
.LP
A search criterion is combined with a simple name to form an indexed name
by concatenating the two parts, separated by a `,'(comma) character as
follows.
.sp
.LP
\fB[\fI search-criterion \fB],\fItable.directory\fR
.sp
.LP
When multiple column name/value pairs are present in the search criterion,
only those entries in the table that have the appropriate value in all
columns specified are returned. When no column name/value pairs are
specified in the search criterion, \fB[\|]\fR,
.I all
entries in the
table are returned.
.SS "Grammar"
.sp
.LP
The following text represents a context-free grammar that defines the set
of legal
.B NIS+
names. The terminals in this grammar are the characters
`.' (dot), `[' (open bracket), `]' (close bracket), `,' (comma), `='
(equals) and whitespace. Angle brackets (`<' and `>'), which delineate
non-terminals, are not part of the grammar. The character `|' (vertical bar)
is used to separate alternate productions and should be read as ``this
production
.B OR
this production''.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.38i) lw(.46i) lw(3.67i)
lw(1.38i) lw(.46i) lw(3.67i)
.
\fIname\fR::=\&. | <\fIsimple name\fR> | <\fIindexed name\fR>
\fIsimple name\fR::=<\fIstring\fR>. | <\fIstring\fR>.<\fIsimple name\fR>
\fIindexed name\fR::=<\fIsearch criterion\fR>,<\fIsimple name\fR>
\fIsearch criterion\fR::=[ <\fIattribute list\fR> ]
\fIattribute list\fR::=T{
<\fIattribute\fR> | <\fIattribute\fR>,<\fIattribute list\fR>
T}
\fIattribute\fR::=<\fIstring\fR> = <\fIstring\fR>
\fIstring\fR::=T{
ISO Latin 1 character set except the character '/' (slash). The initial character can not be a terminal character or the characters '@' (at), '+' (plus), or (`\(mi') hyphen.
T}
.TE

.sp
.LP
Terminals that appear in strings must be quoted with `"' (double quote).
The `"' character can be quoted by quoting it with itself `""'.
.SS "Name Expansion"
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
service only accepts fully qualified names. However, since
such names can be unwieldy, the
.B NIS+
commands in section 1 employ a
set of standard expansion rules that attempt to fully qualify a partially
qualified name. This expansion is actually done by the
.B NIS+
library
function \fBnis_getnames\fR(3NSL) which generates a list of names using the
default
.B NIS+
directory search path or the
.B NIS_PATH
environment
variable. The default
.B NIS+
directory search path includes all the
names in its path.
.B nis_getnames()
is invoked by the functions
.BR nis_lookup (3NSL)
and \fBnis_list\fR(3NSL) when the \fBEXPAND_NAME\fR
flag is used.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS_PATH
environment variable contains an ordered list of simple
names. The names are separated by the `:' (colon) character. If any name in
the list contains colons, the colon should be quoted as described in the
.B Grammar
section. When the list is exhausted, the resolution function
returns the error
.BR NIS_NOTFOUND .
This can mask the fact that the name
existed but a server for it was unreachable. If the name presented to the
list or lookup interface is fully qualified, the
.B EXPAND_NAME
flag is
ignored.
.sp
.LP
In the list of names from the
.B NIS_PATH
environment variable, the '$'
(dollar sign) character is treated specially. Simple names that end with
the label '$' have this character replaced by the default directory (see
\fBnis_local_directory\fR(3NSL)). Using "$" as a name in this list results
in this name being replaced by the list of directories between the default
directory and the global root that contain at least two labels.
.sp
.LP
Below is an example of this expansion. Given the default directory of
.IR some.long.domain.name. ,
and the
.B NIS_PATH
variable set to
.BR fred.bar.:org_dir.$:$ .
This path is initially broken up into the
list:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B fred.bar.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B org_dir.$
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
.B $
.RE

.sp
.LP
The dollar sign in the second component is replaced by the default
directory. The dollar sign in the third component is replaced with the names
of the directories between the default directory and the global root that
have at least two labels in them. The effective path value becomes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B fred.bar.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B org_dir.some.long.domain.name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B some.long.domain.name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B long.domain.name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
.B domain.name.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Each of these simple names is appended to the partially qualified name that
was passed to the \fBnis_lookup\fR(3NSL) or \fBnis_list\fR(3NSL) interface.
Each is tried in turn until
.B NIS_SUCCESS
is returned or the list is
exhausted.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B NIS_PATH
variable is not set, the path ``$'' is used.
.sp
.LP
The library function \fBnis_getnames\fR(3NSL) can be called from user
programs to generate the list of names that would be attempted. The program
.BR nisdefaults (1)
with the
.B -s
option can also be used to show the
fully expanded path.
.SS "Concatenation Path"
.sp
.LP
Normally, all the entries for a certain type of information are stored
within the table itself. However, there are times when it is desirable for
the table to point to other tables where entries can be found. For example,
you might want to store all the IP addresses in the host table for their own
domain, and yet want to be able to resolve hosts in some other domain
without explicitly specifying the new domain name.
.B NIS+
provides a
mechanism for concatenating different but related tables with a "NIS+
Concatenation Path". With a concatenation path, you can create a sort of
flat namespace from a hierarchical structure. You can also create a table
with no entries and just point the hosts or any other table to its parent
domain. Notice that with such a setup, you are moving the administrative
burden of managing the tables to the parent domain. The concatenation path
slows down the request response time because more tables and more servers
are searched. It also decreases the availability if all the servers are
incapacitated for a particular directory in the table path.
.sp
.LP
The \fBNIS+\fR Concatenation Path is also referred to as the "table path".
This path is set up at table creation time through
.BR nistbladm (1).
You
can specify more than one table to be concatenated and they are searched in
the given order. Notice that the
.B NIS+
client libraries, by default, do
not follow the concatenation path set in site-specific tables. Refer to
.BR nis_list (3NSL)
for more details.
.SS "Namespaces"
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
service defines two additional
.I disjoint
namespaces for
its own use. These namespaces are the
.B NIS+
.I Principal
namespace,
and the
.B NIS+
.I Group
namespace. The names associated with the
group and principal namespaces are syntactically identical to simple names.
However, the information they represent
.I cannot
be obtained by
directly presenting these names to the
.B NIS+
interfaces. Instead,
special interfaces are defined to map these names into
.B NIS+
names so
that they can then be resolved.
.SS "Principal Names"
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
principal names are used to uniquely identify users and machines
that are making
.B NIS+
requests. These names have the form:
.sp
.LP
\fIprincipal\fR.\fIdomain\fR
.sp
.LP
Here
.I domain
is the fully qualified name of an
.B NIS+
directory
where the named principal's credentials can be found. See \fBDirectories and
Domains\fR for more information on domains. Notice that in this name,
.IR principal ,
is not a leaf in the
.B NIS+
namespace.
.sp
.LP
Credentials are used to map the identity of a host or user from one context
such as a process
.B UID
into the
.B NIS+
context. They are stored as
records in an
.B NIS+
table named
.IR cred ,
which always appears in the
.I org_dir
subdirectory of the directory named in the principal name.
.sp
.LP
This mapping can be expressed as a replacement function:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIprincipal.domain ->\fB[cname\fI=principal.domain \fB],cred.org_dir\fI\&.domain\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This latter name is an
.B NIS+
name that can be presented to the
.BR nis_list (3NSL)
interface for resolution.
.B NIS+
principal names
are administered using the
.BR nisaddcred "(1M) command."
.sp
.LP
The
.I cred
table contains five columns named
.IR cname ,
.IR auth_name ,
.IR auth_type ,
.IR public_data ,
and
.IR private_data .
There is one record in this table for each identity
mapping for an
.B NIS+
principal. The current service supports three
types of mappings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LOCAL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This mapping is used to map from the
.B UID
of a given process to the
.B NIS+
principal name associated with that
.BR UID .
If no mapping
exists, the name
.I nobody
is returned. When the effective
.B UID
of
the process is 0 (for example, the superuser), the
.B NIS+
name
associated with the host is returned. Notice that \fBUID\fRs are sensitive
to the context of the machine on which the process is executing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DES
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This mapping is used to map to and from a Secure RPC ``netname'' into an
.B NIS+
principal name. See \fBsecure_rpc\fR(3NSL) for more information
on netnames. Notice that since netnames contain the notion of a domain, they
span
.B NIS+
directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DHnnn-m
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Example: DH640-0, DH1024-0. Analogous to
.B DES
mappings, these are used
to map netnames and
.B NIS+
principal names for extended Diffie-Hellman
keys. See \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M) for further information.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
client library function
.BR nis_local_principal "(3NSL) uses"
the
.I cred.org_dir
table to map the UNIX notion of an identity, a
process'
.BR UID ,
into an
.B NIS+
principal name. Shell programs can
use the program
.BR nisdefaults (1)
with the
.B -p
switch to return this
information.
.sp
.LP
Mapping from
.BR UID "s to an"
.B NIS+
principal name is accomplished by
constructing a query of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fB[auth_type=LOCAL,
auth_name=\fIuid\fB],cred.org_dir.\fIdefault-domain\fB\&.\fR

.sp
.LP
This query returs a record containing the
.B NIS+
principal name
associated with this
.B UID,
in the machine's default domain.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
service uses the
.B DES
mapping to map the names
associated with Secure RPC requests into
.B NIS+
principal names. RPC
requests that use Secure RPC include the
.I netname
of the client making
the request in the RPC header. This netname has the form:
.sp
.LP
\fBunix.\fIUID\fB@\fIdomain\fR
.sp
.LP
The service constructs a query using this name of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fB[auth_type=DES,
auth_name=\fInetname\fB],cred.org_dir.\fIdomain\fB\&.\fR

.sp
.LP
where the domain part is extracted from the netname rather than using the
default domain. This query is used to look up the mapping of this netname
into an
.B NIS+
principal name in the domain where it was created.
.sp
.LP
This mechanism of mapping
.B UID
and netnames into an
.BR NIS+
principal name guarantees that a client of the
.B NIS+
service has only
one principal name. This principal name is used as the basis for
authorization which is described below. All objects in the
.B NIS+
namespace and all entries in
.B NIS+
tables must have an owner specified
for them. This owner field always contains an
.B NIS+
principal name.
.SS "Group Names"
.sp
.LP
Like
.B NIS+
principal names,
.B NIS+
group names take the form:
.sp
.LP
group_name\fB\&.domain\fR
.sp
.LP
All objects in the
.B NIS+
namespace and all entries in
.BR NIS+
tables can optionally have a
.I "group owner"
specified for them.
This group owner field, when filled in, always contains the fully qualified
.B NIS+
group name.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
client library defines several interfaces
(\fBnis_groups\fR(3NSL)) for dealing with \fBNIS+\fR groups. These
interfaces internally map
.B NIS+
group names into an
.B NIS+
simple
name which identifies the
.B NIS+
group object associated with that group
name. This mapping can be shown as follows:
.sp
.LP
\fIgroup.domain\fB \(mi>\fR
\fIgroup\fB\&.groups_dir\fI\&.domain\fR
.sp
.LP
This mapping eliminates collisions between
.B NIS+
group names and
.B NIS+
directory names. For example, without this mapping, a directory
with the name
.IR engineering.foo.com. ,
would make it impossible to have a
group named
.IR engineering.foo.com. .
This is due to the restriction that
within the
.B NIS+
namespace, a name unambiguously identifies a single
object. With this mapping, the
.B NIS+
.I group
name
.I engineering.foo.com.
maps to the
.B NIS+
.I object
name
.I engineering.groups_dir.foo.com.
.sp
.LP
The contents of a group object is a list of
.B NIS+
principal names, and
the names of other
.B NIS+
groups. See \fBnis_groups\fR(3NSL) for a more
complete description of their use.
.SH NIS+ SECURITY
.sp
.LP
.B NIS+
defines a security model to control access to information
managed by the service. The service defines access rights that are
selectively granted to individual clients or groups of clients. Principal
names and group names are used to define clients and groups of clients that
can be granted or denied access to
.B NIS+
information. These principals
and groups are associated with
.B NIS+
domains as defined below.
.sp
.LP
The security model also uses the notion of a class of principals called
.IR nobody ,
which contains all clients, whether or not they have
authenticated themselves to the service. The class
.I world
includes any
client who has been authenticated.
.SS "Directories and Domains"
.sp
.LP
Some directories within the
.B NIS+
namespace are referred to as
.BR "NIS+ Domains" .
Domains are those
.B NIS+
directories that
contain the subdirectories
.I groups_dir
and
.IR org_dir .
Further, the
subdirectory
.I org_dir
should contain the table named
.IR cred .
.B NIS+
Group names and
.B NIS+
Principal names
.B always
include
the
.B NIS+
domain name after their first label.
.SS "Authentication"
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
name service uses Secure RPC for the integrity of the
.B NIS+
service. This requires that users of the service and their
machines must have a Secure RPC key pair associated with them. This key is
initially generated with either the
.BR nisaddcred "(1M) or"
.BR nisclient (1M)
commands and modified with the
.BR chkey (1)
or
.BR nispasswd (1)
commands.
.sp
.LP
The use of Secure RPC allows private information to be stored in the name
service that is not available to untrusted machines or users on the
network.
.sp
.LP
In addition to the Secure RPC key, users need a mapping of their \fBUID\fR
into an
.B NIS+
principal name. This mapping is created by the system
administrator using either the
.BR nisclient "(1M) or the"
.BR nisaddcred (1M)
command.
.sp
.LP
Users that are using machines in several
.B NIS+
domains must insure
that they have a
.I local
credential entry in each of those domains.
This credential should be created with the
.B NIS+
principal name of the
user in the user's ``home'' domain. For the purposes of
.B NIS+
and
Secure RPC, the home domain is defined to be the one where the user's Secure
RPC key pair is located.
.sp
.LP
Although extended Diffie-Hellman keys use an alternative to Secure RPC,
administration is done through the same commands. See \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M).

.SS "Authorization"
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
service defines four access rights that can be granted or
denied to clients of the service. These rights are
.BR read ,
.IR modify ,
.IR create ,
and
.IR destroy .
These rights are specified in
the object structure at creation time and can be modified later with the
.BR nischmod (1)
command. In general, the rights granted for an object
apply only to that object. However, for purposes of authorization, rights
granted to clients reading
.I directory
and
.I table
objects are
granted to those clients for all of the objects ``contained'' by the parent
object. This notion of containment is abstract. The objects do not actually
contain other objects within them. Notice that
.I group
objects do
contain the list of principals within their definition.
.sp
.LP
Access rights are interpreted as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B read
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This right grants read access to an object. For directory and table
objects, having read access on the parent object conveys read access to all
of the objects that are direct children of a directory, or entries within a
table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B modify
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This right grants modification access to an existing object. Read access is
not required for modification. However, in many applications, one needs to
read an object before modifying it. Such modify operations fail unless read
access is also granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This right gives a client permission to create new objects where one had
not previously existed. It is only used in conjunction with directory and
table objects. Having create access for a table allows a client to add
additional entries to the table. Having create access for a directory allows
a client to add new objects to an
.B NIS+
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B destroy
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This right gives a client permission to destroy or remove an existing
object or entry. When a client attempts to destroy an entry or object by
removing it, the service first checks to see if the table or directory
containing that object grants the client destroy access. If it does, the
operation proceeds, if the containing object does not grant this right then
the object itself is checked to see if it grants this right to the client.
If the object grants the right, then the operation proceeds; otherwise the
request is rejected.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Each of these rights can be granted to any one of four different
categories.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I owner
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A right can be granted to the
.I owner
of an object. The owner is the
.B NIS+
principal identified in the owner field. The owner can be
changed with the
.BR nischown (1)
command. Notice that if the owner does
not have modification access rights to the object, the owner cannot change
any access rights to the object, unless the owner has modification access
rights to its parent object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I group owner
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A right can be granted to the
.I "group owner"
of an object. This
grants the right to any principal that is identified as a member of the
group associated with the object. The group owner can be changed with the
.BR nischgrp (1)
command. The object owner need not be a member of this
group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I world
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A right can be granted to everyone in the
.IR world .
This grants the
right to all clients who have authenticated themselves with the service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nobody
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A right can be granted to the
.I nobody
principal. This has the effect
of granting the right to any client that makes a request of the service,
regardless of whether they are authenticated or not.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Notice that for bootstrapping reasons, directory objects that are
.B NIS+
domains, the
.I org_dir
subdirectory and the
.I cred
table
within that subdirectory must have
.B read
access to the
.IR nobody
principal. This makes navigation of the namespace possible when a client is
in the process of locating its credentials. Granting this access does not
allow the contents of other tables within
.I org_dir
to be read (such as
the entries in the password table) unless the table itself gives "real"
access rights to the
.I nobody
principal.
.SS "Directory Authorization"
.sp
.LP
Additional capabilities are provided for granting access rights to clients
for directories. These rights are contained within the \fIobject\fR
.I access rights
(OAR) structure of the directory. This structure
allows the
.B NIS+
service to grant rights that are not granted by the
directory object to be granted for objects contained by the directory of a
specific type.
.sp
.LP
An example of this capability is a directory object which does not grant
create access to all clients, but does grant create access in the
.B OAR
structure for
.I group
type objects to clients who are members of the
.B NIS+
group associated with the directory. In this example the only
objects that could be created as children of the directory would have to be
of the type
.IR group .
.sp
.LP
Another example is a directory object that grants create access only to the
owner of the directory, and then additionally grants create access through
the
.B OAR
structure for objects of type
.IR table ,
.BR link ,
.IR group ,
and
.I private
to any member of the directory's group. This
has the effect of giving nearly complete create access to the group with the
exception of creating subdirectories. This restricts the creation of new
.B NIS+
domains because creating a domain requires creating both a
.I groups_dir
and
.I org_dir
subdirectory.
.sp
.LP
Notice that there is currently no command line interface to set or change
the
.B OAR
of the directory object.
.SS "Table Authorization"
.sp
.LP
As with directories, additional capabilities are provided for granting
access to entries within tables. Rights granted to a client by the access
rights field in a table object apply to the table object and all of the
entry objects ``contained'' by that table. If an access right is not granted
by the table object, it can be granted by an entry within the table. This
holds for all rights except
.IR create .
.sp
.LP
For example, a table can not grant read access to a client performing a
.BR nis_list (3NSL)
operation on the table. However, the access rights
field of entries within that table can grant read access to the client.
Notice that access rights in an entry are granted to the owner and group
owner of the
.I entry
and not the owner or group of the table. When the
list operation is performed, all entries that the client has read access to
are returned. Those entries that do not grant read access are not returned.
If none of the entries that match the search criterion grant read access to
the client making the request, no entries are returned and the result status
contains the
.B NIS_NOTFOUND
error code.
.sp
.LP
Access rights that are granted by the rights field in an entry are granted
for the entire entry. However, in the table object an additional set of
access rights is maintained for each column in the table. These rights apply
to the equivalent column in the entry. The rights are used to grant access
when neither the table nor the entry itself grant access. The access rights
in a column specification apply to the owner and group owner of the entry
rather than the owner and group owner of the table object.
.sp
.LP
When a read operation is performed, if read access is not granted by the
table and is not granted by the entry but
.I is
granted by the access
rights in a column, that entry is returned with the correct values in all
columns that are readable and the string
.B *NP*
(No Permission) in
columns where read access is not granted.
.sp
.LP
As an example, consider a client that has performed a list operation on a
table that does not grant read access to that client. Each entry object that
satisfied the search criterion specified by the client is examined to see if
it grants read access to the client. If it does, it is included in the
returned result. If it does not, then each column is checked to see if it
grants read access to the client. If any columns grant read access to the
client, data in those columns is returned. Columns that do not grant read
access have their contents replaced by the string
.BR *NP* .
If none of
the columns grant read access, then the entry is not returned.
.SS "Protocol Operation Authorization"
.sp
.LP
Most
.B NIS+
operations have implied access control through the
permissions on the objects that they manipulate. For example, in order to
read an entry in a table, you must have read permission on that entry.
However, some
.B NIS+
operations by default perform no access checking at
all and so are allowed for anyone.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Operation
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B "Example of commands that use the operation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CHECKPOINT
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nisping -C
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CPTIME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisping ,
.B rpc.nisd
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_MKDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nismkdir
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PING
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
 \fBnisping\fR,  \fBrpc.nisd\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_RMDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nisrmdir
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_SERVSTATE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisbackup ,
.B nisrestore
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_STATUS
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisstat ,
.B rpc.nispasswdd
.RE

.sp
.LP
See
.BR nisopaccess (1)
for a description of how to enforce access control
to these
.B NIS+
operations.
.SH LIST OF COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following lists all commands and programming functions related to
.BR NIS+ :
.SS "NIS+ User Commands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisaddent\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
add
.B /etc
files and
.B NIS
maps into their corresponding
.B NIS+
tables
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBniscat\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
display
.B NIS+
tables and objects
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnischgrp\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
change the group owner of a
.B NIS+
object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnischmod\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
change access rights on a
.B NIS+
object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnischown\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
change the owner of a
.B NIS+
object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnischttl\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
change the time to live value of a
.B NIS+
object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisdefaults\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
display
.B NIS+
default values
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBniserror\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisgrep\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
utilities for searching
.B NIS+
tables
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisgrpadm\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
.B NIS+
group administration command
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisln\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
symbolically link
.B NIS+
objects
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisls\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
list the contents of a
.B NIS+
directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnismatch\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
utilities for searching
.B NIS+
tables
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnismkdir\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
create
.B NIS+
directories
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisopaccess\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
access control for protocol operations
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnispasswd\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
change
.B NIS+
password information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisrm\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
remove
.B NIS+
objects from the namespace
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisrmdir\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
remove
.B NIS+
directories
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisshowcache\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
.B NIS+
utility to print out the contents of the shared cache file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnistbladm\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
.B NIS+
table administration command
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnistest\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
return the state of the
.B NIS+
namespace using a conditional
expression
.RE

.SS "NIS+ Administrative Commands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaliasadm\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
manipulate the
.B NIS+
aliases map
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_cachemgr\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
utility to cache location information about
.B NIS+
servers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisaddcred\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
create
.B NIS+
credentials
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisaddent\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
create
.B NIS+
tables from corresponding /etc files or \fBNIS+\fR
maps
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisauthconf\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
configure extended Diffie-Hellman keys
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisbackup\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
backup
.B NIS+
directories
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisclient\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
initialize
.B NIS+
credentials for
.B NIS+
principals
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisd\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
service daemon
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisd_resolv\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
service daemon
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisinit\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
client and server initialization utility
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnislog\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
display the contents of the
.B NIS+
transaction log
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisping\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
send ping to
.B NIS+
servers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnispopulate\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
populate the
.B NIS+
tables in a
.B NIS+
domain
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisprefadm\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
utility to set server preferences for
.B NIS+
clients
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisrestore\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
restore
.B NIS+
directory backup
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisserver\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
set up
.B NIS+
servers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnissetup\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
initialize a
.B NIS+
domain
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisshowcache\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
utility to print out the contents of the shared cache file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisstat\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
report
.B NIS+
server statistics
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisupdkeys\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
update the public keys in a
.B NIS+
directory object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrpc.nisd\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
service daemon
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
.B NIS+
service daemon
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsysidns\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
system configuration
.RE

.SS "NIS+ Programming API"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_add\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_add_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_addmember\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_checkpoint\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
misellaneous
.B NIS+
log administration functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_clone_object\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_creategroup\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_destroy_object\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_destroygroup\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_dir_cmp\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_domain_of\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_error\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_first_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_freenames\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_freeresult\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_freeservlist\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_freetags\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_getnames\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_getservlist\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_groups\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_ismember\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_leaf_of\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_lerror\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display some
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_list\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_local_directory\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
local names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_local_group\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
local names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_local_host\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
local names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_local_names\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
local names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_local_principal\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
local names
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_lookup\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_mkdir\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_modify\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_modify_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_name_of\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_names\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_next_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
object formats
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_perror\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_ping\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
log administration functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_print_group_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_print_object\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_remove\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
namespace functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_remove_entry\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_removemember\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_rmdir\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_server\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_servstate\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_sperrno\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_sperror\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_sperror_r\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
display
.B NIS+
error messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_stats\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
miscellaneous
.B NIS+
functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_subr\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
subroutines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_tables\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
table functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnis_verifygroup\fR(3NSL)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B NIS+
group manipulation functions
.RE

.SS "NIS+ Files and Directories"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnisfiles\fR(4)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.B NIS+
database files and directory structure
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <rpcsvc/nis_object.x>
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
protocol description of an
.B NIS+
object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <rpcsvc/nis.x>
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
defines the
.B NIS+
protocol using the RPC language as described in the
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <rpcsvc/nis.h>
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
should be included by all clients of the
.B NIS+
service
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nischown (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nisopaccess (1),
.BR nispasswd (1),
.BR newkey (1M),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
.BR nisauthconf (1M),
.BR nisclient (1M),
.BR nispopulate (1M),
.BR nisserver (1M),
.BR nis_add_entry (3NSL),
.BR nis_domain_of (3NSL),
.BR nis_getnames (3NSL),
.BR nis_groups (3NSL),
.BR nis_leaf_of (3NSL),
.BR nis_list (3NSL),
.BR nis_local_directory (3NSL),
.BR nis_lookup (3NSL),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL)
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS,
and LDAP)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes how to make the transition from
.B NIS
to
.BR NIS+ .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes the application programming interfaces for networks including
.BR NIS+ .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS,
and LDAP)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes how to plan for and configure an
.B NIS+
namespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I System Administration Guide: IP Services
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Describes IPv6 extensions to Solaris name services.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
