'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH niscat 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
niscat \- display NIS+ tables and objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBniscat\fR [\fB-AhLMv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fItablename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBniscat\fR [\fB-ALMP\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In the first synopsis,
.B niscat
displays the contents of the
.BR NIS+
tables named by
.IR tablename .
In the second synopsis, it displays the
internal representation of the
.B NIS+
objects named by
.IR name .
.sp
.LP
Columns without values in the table are displayed by two adjacent separator
characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Displays the data within the table and all of  the data in tables in the
initial table's concatenation path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Displays the header line prior to displaying the table. The header consists
of the `\fB#\fR' (hash) character followed by the name of each column. The
column names are separated by the table separator character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Follows links. When this option is specified, if
.I tablename
or
.I name
names a LINK type object, the link is followed and the object or
table named by the link is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Master server only. This option specifies that the request should be sent
to the master server of the named data. This guarantees that the most
up-to-date information is seen at the possible expense of increasing the
load on the master server and increasing the possibility of the
.BR NIS+
server being unavailable or busy for updates.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Displays the internal representation of the named
.B NIS+
object(s). If
.I name
is an indexed name (see
.BR nismatch (1)),
then each of the
matching entry objects is displayed. This option is used to display access
rights and other attributes of individual columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Follows concatenation path. This option specifies that the request should
follow the concatenation path of a table if the initial search is
unsuccessful. This option is only useful when using an indexed name for
.I name
and the
.B -o
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I sep
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This option specifies the character to use to separate the table columns.
If no character is specified, the default separator for the table is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Displays binary data directly. This option displays columns containing
binary data on the standard output. Without this option binary data is
displayed as the string
.BR *BINARY* .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying the Contents of the Hosts Table
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the contents of the hosts table:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% niscat \fB-h hosts.org_dir\fR
# cname	name	addr	comment
client1	client1	192.168.201.100	Joe Smith
crunchy	crunchy	192.168.201.44	Jane Smith
crunchy	softy	192.168.201.44
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The string
.B *NP*
is returned in those fields where the user has
insufficient access rights.

.LP
.B Example 2
Displaying on the Standard Output
.sp
.LP
The following displays the
.B passwd.org_dir
on the standard output.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat passwd.org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Displaying Table Contents
.sp
.LP
Display the contents of table
.B frodo
and the contents of all tables in
its concatenation path.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -A frodo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Displaying Table Entries
.sp
.LP
The following example diisplays the entries in the table
.B groups.org_dir
as
.B NIS+
objects. Notice that the brackets are
protected from the shell by single quotes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o '[ ]groups.org_dir'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Displaying the Table Object
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the table object of the
.BR passwd.org_dir
table.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o passwd.org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The previous example displays the passwd table object and not the passwd
table. The table object includes information such as the number of columns,
column type, searchable or not searchable separator, access rights, and
other defaults.

.LP
.B Example 6
Displaying the Directory Object
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the directory object for
.BR org_dir ,
which includes information such as the access rights and replica
information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
table name is not fully
qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the table is
found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
.B niscat
returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR nis_tables (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
