'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nischmod 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nischmod \- change access rights on a NIS+ object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnischmod\fR [\fB-AfLP\fR] \fImode\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nischmod
changes the access rights (mode) of the
.B NIS+
objects
or entries specified by
.I name
to
.IR mode .
Entries are specified
using indexed names (see
.BR nismatch (1)).
Only principals with modify
access to an object may change its mode.
.sp
.LP
.I mode
has the following form:
.sp
.LP
\fIrights\fR [, \fIrights\fR\|]\fI\|.\|.\|.\fR
.sp
.LP
.I rights
has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[ \fBwho\fR ] \fIop\fR \fIpermission\fR [ \fIop\fR \fIpermission\fR ]\|.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.B who
is a combination of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B n
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Nobody's permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B o
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Owner's permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B g
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Group's permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B w
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
World's permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
All, or
.BR owg .
.sp
If
.B who
is omitted, the default is
.BR a .
.RE

.sp
.LP
.I op
is one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B +
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
To grant the
.IR permission .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
To revoke the
.IR permission .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B =
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
To set the permissions explicitly.
.RE

.sp
.LP
.I permission
is any combination of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Modify.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Create.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Destroy.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Unlike the system
.BR chmod (1)
command, this command does not accept an
octal notation.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Modify all entries in all tables in the concatenation path that match the
search criteria specified in
.IR name .
This option implies the
.BR -P
switch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force the operation and fail silently if it does not succeed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Follow links and change the permission of the linked object or entries
rather than the permission of the link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Follow the concatenation path within a named table. This option is only
applicable when either
.I name
is an indexed name or the
.B -L
switch
is also specified and the named object is a link pointing to an entry.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B nischmod
Command
.sp
.LP
This example gives everyone read access to an object. (that is, access for
owner, group, and all).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischmod a+r object
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example denies create and modify privileges to
.B group
and
unauthenticated clients
.RB ( nobody ).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischmod gn\(micm object
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, a complex set of permissions are set for an object.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischmod o=rmcd,g=rm,w=rc,n=r object
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example sets the permissions of an entry in the password table so that
the group owner can modify them.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischmod g+m '[uid=55],passwd.org_dir'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next example changes the permissions of a linked object.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischmod -L w+mr linkname
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
name is not fully qualified,
each directory specified will be searched until the object is found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischgrp (1),
.BR nischown (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
