'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nischown 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nischown \- change the owner of a NIS+ object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnischown\fR [\fB-AfLP\fR] \fIowner\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nischown
changes the owner of the NIS+ objects or entries specified
by
.I name
to
.IR owner .
Entries are specified using indexed names (see
.BR nismatch (1)).
If
.I owner
is not a fully qualified NIS+ principal
name (see
.BR nisaddcred (1M)),
the default domain (see
.BR nisdefaults (1))
will be appended to it.
.sp
.LP
The only restriction on changing an object's owner is that you must have
modify permissions for the object. Note: If you are the current owner of an
object and you change ownership,  you may not be able to regain ownership
unless you have modify access to  the new object.
.sp
.LP
The command will fail if the master
.B NIS+
server is not running.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS+
server will check the validity of the name before making
the modification.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Modify all entries in all tables in the concatenation path that match the
search criteria specified in
.I name.
It implies the
.B -P
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force the operation and fail silently if it does not succeed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Follow links and change the owner of the linked object or entries rather
than the owner of the link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Follow the concatenation path within a named table. This option is only
meaningful when either
.I name
is an indexed name or the
.B -L
option
is also specified and the named object is a link pointing to entries.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B nischown
Command
.sp
.LP
The following two examples show how to change the owner of an object to a
principal in a different domain, and to change it to a principal in the
local domain, respectively.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischown bob.remote.domain. object
example% nischown skippy object
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next example shows how to change the owner of an entry in the passwd
table.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischown bob.remote.domain. '[uid=99],passwd.org_dir'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example shows how to change the object or entries pointed to by a
link.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% nischown -L skippy linkname
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the NIS+ name is not fully qualified, each
directory specified will be searched until the object is found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischgrp (1),
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischttl (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
