'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisdefaults 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisdefaults \- display NIS+ default values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisdefaults\fR [\fB-adghprstv\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nisdefaults
utility prints the default values that are returned
by calls to the
.B NIS+
local name functions (see
.BR nis_local_names (3NSL)).
With no options specified, all defaults will
be printed in a verbose format. With options, only that option is displayed
in a terse form suitable for shell scripts. See the example below.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print all defaults in a terse format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default domain name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default group name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default principal name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default access rights with which new objects will be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default directory search path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the default time to live value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the defaults in a verbose format. This prepends an identifying string
to the output.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Printing NIS+ defaults
.sp
.LP
The following prints the
.B NIS+
defaults for a root process on machine
.B example
in the
.B foo.bar.
domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample# nisdefaults\fR
Principal Name	:	example.foo.bar.
Domain Name	:	foo.bar.
Host Name	:	example.foo.bar.
Group Name	:
Access Rights   :       \(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
Time to live	:	12:00:00
Search Path	:	foo.bar.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Setting a variable in the shell script
.sp
.LP
This example sets a variable in a shell script to the default domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBDOMAIN=`nisdefaults -d`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Printing the default time to live in verbose format
.sp
.LP
This example prints out the default time to live in a verbose format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisdefaults -tv\fR
Time to live   :       12:00:00
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Printing the time to live in terse format
.sp
.LP
This example prints out the time to live in the terse format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisdefaults -t\fR
43200
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
Several environment variables affect the defaults associated with a
process.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_DEFAULTS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the
.BR NIS+
standard defaults. The defaults string is a series of tokens separated by
colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic
object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ttl= time
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created. The
value
.I time
is specified in the format as defined by the
.BR nischttl (1)
command. The default value is
.B 12
hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI owner= ownername
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the
.B NIS+
principal
.I ownername
should
own created objects. The default for this value is the principal who is
executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI group= groupname
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the group
.I groupname
should be the group
owner for created objects. The default is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI access= rights
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for
created objects. The value
.I rights
is specified in the format as
defined by the
.BR nischmod (1)
command. The default value is:
.BR \(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi \&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_GROUP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This variable contains the name of the local
.B NIS+
group. If the name
is not fully qualified, the default domain will be appended to it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This variable overrides the default
.B NIS+
directory search path. It
contains an ordered list of directories separated by ':' (colon) characters.
The '$' (dollar sign) character is treated specially. Directory names that
end in '$' have the default domain appended to them, and a '$' by itself is
replaced by the list of directories between the default domain and the
global root that are at least two levels deep. The default
.B NIS+
directory search path is '$'.
.sp
Refer to the
.B "Name Expansion"
subsection in
.BR NIS+ (1)
for more
details.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischttl (1),
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nis_local_names (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
