'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH niserror 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
niserror \- display NIS+ error messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBniserror\fR \fIerror-num\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B niserror
prints the  NIS+ error associated with status value
.I error-num
on the standard output. It is used by shell scripts to
translate NIS+ error numbers that are returned into text messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR niserror
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the error associated with the error number
.BR 20 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% niserror 20
Not Found, no such name
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nis_error (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
