'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisgrpadm 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisgrpadm \- NIS+ group administration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-a\fR | \fB-r\fR | \fB-t\fR [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR \fIprincipal\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-d\fR | \fB-l\fR [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nisgrpadm
utility is used to administer
.B NIS+
groups. This
command administers both groups and the groups' membership lists.
.B nisgrpadm
can create, destroy, or list
.B NIS+
groups.
.B nisgrpadm
can be used to administer a group's membership list. It can
add or delete principals to the group, or test principals for membership in
the group.
.sp
.LP
The names of
.B NIS+
groups are syntactically similar to names of
.B NIS+
objects but they occupy a separate namespace. A group named
.B a.b.c.d.
is represented by a
.B NIS+
group object named
.BR a.groups_dir.b.c.d. ;
the functions described here all expect the name
of the group, not the name of the corresponding group object.
.sp
.LP
There are three types of group members:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An
.I explicit
member is just a
.B NIS+
principal-name. For example:
.B wickedwitch.west.oz.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An \fIimplicit\fR ("domain") member, written \fB*.west.oz.\fR, means that
all principals in the given domain belong to this member. No other forms of
wildcarding are allowed;
.B wickedwitch.*.oz.
is invalid, as is
\fBwickedwitch.west.*.\fR\|. Note that principals in subdomains of the given
domain are
.I not
included.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A \fIrecursive\fR ("group") member, written \fB@cowards.oz.\fR, refers to
another group;  all principals that belong to that group are considered to
belong here.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Any member may be made
.I negative
by prefixing it with a minus sign
('\(mi'). A group may thus contain explicit, implicit, recursive, negative
explicit, negative implicit, and negative recursive members.
.sp
.LP
A principal is considered to belong to a group if it belongs to at least
one non-negative group member of the group and belongs to no negative group
members.
.sp
.LP
Principal names
.I must
be fully qualified, whereas groups can be
abbreviated on all operations
.I except
create.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Adds the list of
.B NIS+
principals specified to
.IR group .
The
principal name should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Creates
.I group
in the
.B NIS+
namespace. The
.B NIS+
group name
should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Destroys (removes)
.I group
from the namespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-D\fI defaults\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
When creating objects, this option specifies a different set of defaults
to be used during this operation. The
.I defaults
string is a series of
tokens separated by colons. These tokens represent the default values to be
used for the generic object properties. All of the legal tokens are
described below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBttl=\fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by
this command. The value
.I time
is specified in the format as defined by
the
.BR nischttl (1)
command. The default value is 12 hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBowner=\fIownername\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the
.B NIS+
principal
.I ownername
should
own the created object. Normally this value is the same as the principal who
is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBgroup=\fIgroupname\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the group
.I groupname
should be the group
owner for the object that is created.  The default value is \fINULL.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaccess=\fIrights\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for
the given object. The value
.I rights
is specified in the format as
defined by the
.BR nischmod (1)
command. The default value is
.BR \(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi \&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists the membership list of the specified
.IR group .
.RB "(See " " -M"
option.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Master server only. Sends the lookup to the master server of the named
data. This guarantees that the most up to date information is seen at the
.RB "possible expense that the master server may be busy. Note that the " " -M"
flag is applicable only with the
.B -l
flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Removes the list of principals specified from
.IR group .
The principal
name should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Work silently. Results are returned using the exit status of the command.
This status can be translated into a text string using the
.BR niserror (1)
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Displays whether the principals specified are members in
.IR group .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Administering Groups"
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to create a group in the
.B foo.com.
domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -c my_buds.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
How to remove a group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to remove the group from the current domain.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -d freds_group\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Administering Members"
.LP
.B Example 3
Adding to the group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how one would add two principals,
.B bob
and
.BR betty ,
to the group  \fBmy_buds.foo.com.:\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -a my_buds.foo.com. bob.bar.com. betty.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
How to remove a principal from the group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to remove
.B betty
from
.BR freds_group :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -r freds_group betty.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_DEFAULTS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the
.BR NIS+
standard defaults.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
group name is not fully
qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the group is
found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischgrp (1),
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischttl (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR niserror (1),
.BR nis_groups (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
On success, this command returns an exit status of
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PERMISSION
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
When you do not have the needed access right to change the group, the
command returns this error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_NOTFOUND
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
This is returned when the group does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_TRYAGAIN
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
This error is returned when the server for the group's domain is currently
checkpointing or otherwise in a read-only state. The command should be
retried at a later date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_MODERROR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
This error is returned when the group was modified by someone else during
the execution of the command. Reissue the command and optionally recheck the
group's membership list.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
