'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisln 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisln \- symbolically link NIS+ objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisln\fR [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] \fIname\fR \fIlinkname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nisln
command links a
.B NIS+
object named
.I name
to a
.B NIS+
name
.IR linkname .
If
.I name
is an indexed name (see
.BR nismatch (1)),
the link points to entries within a
.B NIS+
table.
Clients wishing to look up information in the name service can use the
.B FOLLOW_LINKS
flag to force the client library to follow links to the
name they point to. Further, all of the
.B NIS+
administration commands
accept the
.B -L
switch indicating they should follow links (see
.BR nis_names (3NSL)
for a description of the
.B FOLLOW_LINKS
flag).
.sp
.LP
When creating the link,
.B nisln
verifies that the linked object exists.
Once created, the linked object may be deleted or replaced and the link will
not be affected. At that time, the link will become invalid and attempts to
follow it will return
.B NIS_LINKNAMEERROR
to the client. When the path
attribute in tables specifies a link rather than another table, the link
will be followed if the flag
.B FOLLOW_LINKS
was present in the call to
.B nis_list()
(see \fBnis_tables\fR(3NSL)) and ignored if the flag is not
present. If the flag is present and the link is no longer valid, a warning
is sent to the system logger and the link is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I defaults
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify a different set of defaults to be used for the creation of the link
object. The
.I defaults
string is a series of tokens separated by colons.
These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic object
properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBttl=\fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by
this command. The value
.I time
is specified in the format as defined by
the
.BR nischttl (1)
command. The default is
.B 12
hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBowner=\fIownername\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the
.B NIS+
principal
.I ownername
should
own the created object. The default for this value is the the principal who
is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBgroup=\fIgroupname\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the group
.I groupname
should be the group
owner for the object that is created. The default is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBaccess=\fIrights\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for
the given object. The value
.I rights
is specified in the format as
defined by the
.BR nischmod (1)
command. The default value is
.BR \(mi\(mi\(mi\(mirmcdr\(mi\(mi\(mir\(mi\(mi\(mi \&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
When present, this option specifies that this command should follow links.
If
.I name
is itself a link, then this command will follow it to the
linked object that it points to. The new link will point to that linked
object rather than to
.IR name .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a link
.sp
.LP
In this example, we create a link in the domain
.B foo.com.
named
.B hosts
that points to the object
.BR hosts.bar.com. :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisln hosts.bar.com. hosts.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Making a link that points to an entry in the hosts table
.sp
.LP
In this example, we make a link
.I example.foo.com.
that points to an
entry in the hosts table in
.IR eng.foo.com :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisln '[name=example],hosts.eng.foo.com.' example.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
name is not fully qualified,
each directory specified will be searched until the object is found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nismatch (1),
.BR nisrm (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_tables (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
