'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nismatch 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nismatch, nisgrep \- utilities for searching NIS+ tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIkey\fR \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIcolname\fR = \fIkey\fR.\|.\|. \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrep\fR [\fB-AchiMov\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIkeypat\fR \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrep\fR [\fB-AchiMov\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIcolname\fR = \fIkeypat\fR.\|.\|. \fItablename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The utilities
.B nismatch
and
.B nisgrep
can be used to search NIS+
tables. The command
.B nisgrep
differs from the
.B nismatch
command in its
ability to accept regular expressions
.I keypat
for the search criteria rather
than simple text matches.
.sp
.LP
Because
.B nisgrep
uses a callback function, it is not constrained to
searching only those columns that are specifically made searchable at the time of
table creation. This makes it more flexible, but slower, than
.BR nismatch .
.sp
.LP
In
.BR nismatch ,
the server does the searching, whereas in
.B nisgrep
the
server returns all the readable entries and then the client does the
pattern-matching.
.sp
.LP
In both commands, the parameter
.I tablename
is the NIS+ name of the table
to be searched. If only one key or key pattern is specified without the column
name, then it is applied searching the first column. Specific named columns can
be searched by using the \fIcolname\fR=\fIkey\fR syntax. When multiple columns
are searched, only entries that match in all columns are returned. This is the
equivalent of a logical join operation.
.sp
.LP
.B nismatch
accepts an additional form of search criteria,
.IR indexedname ,
which is a NIS+ indexed name of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fB[ \fIcolname\fB=\fIvalue\fB, .\|.\|. ],\fItablename\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
All data. Return the data within the table and all of the data in tables in the
initial table's concatenation path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Print only a count of the number of entries that matched the search criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Display a header line before the matching entries that contains the names of the
table's columns
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Ignore upper/lower case distinction during comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -M
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Master server only. Send the lookup to the master server of the named data. This
guarantees that the most up to date information is seen at the possible expense
that the master server may be busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Display the internal representation of the matching
.B NIS+
object(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Follow concatenation path. Specify that the lookup should follow the
concatenation path of a table if the initial search is unsuccessful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " sep"
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
This option specifies the character to use to separate the table columns. If no
character is specified, the default separator for the table is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Verbose. Do not suppress the output of binary data when displaying matching
entries. Without this option binary data is displayed as the string
.BR *BINARY* .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Searching a table for a username
.sp
.LP
This example searches a table named
.B passwd
in the
.BR org_dir
subdirectory of the
.B zotz.com.
domain. It returns the entry that has the
username of
.BR skippy .
In this example, all the work is done on the server:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismatch name=skippy passwd.org_dir.zotz.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Finding users using specific shells
.sp
.LP
This example is similar to the one above, except that it uses
.B nisgrep
to
find all users in the table named
.B passwd
that are using either
.BR ksh (1)
or
.BR csh (1):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrep 'shell=[ck]sh' passwd.org_dir.zotz.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
table name is not fully qualified,
each directory specified will be searched until the table is found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successfully matches some entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successfully searches the table and no matches are found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error condition occurs. An error message is also printed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR niscat (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nisls (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B No memory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An attempt to allocate some memory for the search failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fItablename\fB is not a table\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The object with the name
.I tablename
was not a table object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Can't compile regular expression
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The regular expression in
.I keypat
was malformed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcolumn not found: \fIcolname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The column named
.I colname
does not exist in the table named
.IR tablename .
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system.
Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris
release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
