'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nismkdir 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nismkdir \- create NIS+ directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnismkdir\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIhostname\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIhostname\fR] \fIdirname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nismkdir
command creates new NIS+ subdirectories within an
existing domain. It can also be used to create replicated directories.
Without options, this command will create a subdirectory with the same
master and the replicas as its parent directory.
.sp
.LP
It is advisable to use
.BR nisserver "(1M) to create an NIS+ domain which"
consists of the specified directory along with the
.B org_dir
and
.B groups_dir
subdirectories.
.sp
.LP
The two primary aspects that are controlled when making a directory are its
access rights, and its degree of replication.
.sp
.LP
A host that serves a  NIS+ directory must be a NIS+ client in a directory
above the one it is serving. The exceptions to this rule are the root NIS+
servers, which are both clients and servers of the same NIS+ directory.
.sp
.LP
When the host's default domain is different from the default domain on the
client where the command is executed, the hostname supplied as an argument
to the
.B -s
or
.B -m
options must be fully qualified.
.sp
.LP
Special per-server and per-directory access restrictions may apply when
this command updates the serving lists of the affected NIS+ servers. See
.BR nisopaccess (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -D " defaults"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify a different set of defaults to be used when creating new
directories. The
.I defaults
string is a series of tokens separated by
colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic
object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ttl= time
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by
this command. The value
.I time
is specified in the format as defined by
the
.BR nischttl (1)
command. The default value is
.B 12h
(12 hours).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI owner= ownername
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the
.B NIS+
principal
.I ownername
should
own the created object. The default for this value is the principal who is
executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI group= groupname
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies that the group
.I groupname
should be the group
owner for the object that is created.  The default value is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI access= rights
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for
the given object. The value
.I rights
is specified in the format as
defined by the
.BR nischmod (1)
command. The default value is
.BR \(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi \&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " hostname"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
If the directory named by
.I dirname
does not exist, then a new
directory that is
.I not
replicated is created with host
.IR hostname
as its master server.
.sp
If the directory name by
.B dirname
does exist, then the host named by
.B hostname
is made its master server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " hostname"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that the host
.B hostname
will be a  replica for an existing
directory named
.IR dirname.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dirname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The fully qualified
.B NIS+
name of the directory that has to be
created.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B nismkdir
Command
.sp
.LP
To create a new directory
.B bar
under the
.B foo.com.
domain that
shares the same master and replicas as the
.B foo.com.
directory one
would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To create a new directory
.B bar.foo.com.
that is not replicated under
the
.B foo.com.
domain one would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir -m myhost.foo.com. bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To add a replica server of the
.B bar.foo.com.
directory, one would use
the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir -s replica.foo.com. bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_DEFAULTS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the
.BR NIS+
standard defaults. If the
.B -D
switch is used those values will then
override both the
.B NIS_DEFAULTS
variable and the standard defaults.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the
.B NIS+
directory name is not fully
qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the directory is
found (see
.BR nisdefaults (1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nischttl (1),
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nisls (1),
.BR nisopaccess (1),
.BR nisrmdir (1),
.BR nisserver (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
