'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisopaccess 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisopaccess \- NIS+ operation access control administration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fIdirectory\fR \fIoperation\fR \fIrights\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-r\fR] \fIdirectory\fR \fIoperation\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-l\fR] \fIdirectory\fR [\fIoperation\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Most NIS+ operations have implied access control through the permissions on
the objects that they manipulate. For example,  in order to read an entry in
a table, you must have read permission on that entry. However, some NIS+
operations by default perform no access checking at all and are allowed to
all:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Operation
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B "Example of commands that use the operation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CHECKPOINT
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nisping -C
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CPTIME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisping ,
.B rpc.nisd
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_MKDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nismkdir
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PING
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisping ,
.B rpc.nisd
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_RMDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.B nisrmdir
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_SERVSTATE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisbackup ,
.B nisrestore
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_STATUS
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.BR nisstat ,
.B rpc.nispasswdd
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B nisopaccess
command can be used to enforce access control on
these operations on a per NIS+ directory basis.
.sp
.LP
The
.I directory
argument should be the fully qualified name, including
the trailing dot, of the NIS+ directory to which
.B nisopaccess
will be
applied. As a short-hand method, if the directory name does not end in a
trailing dot, for example "\fBorg_dir\fR", then the domain name is appended.
The domain name is also appended to partial paths such as
"\fBorg_dir.xyz\fR".
.sp
.LP
You can use upper or lower case for the
.I operation
argument. However,
you cannot mix cases. The "\fBNIS_\fR"  prefix may be omitted. For example,
.B NIS_PING
can be specified as
.BR NIS_PING ,
.BR nis_ping ,
.BR PING ,
or
.BR ping .
.sp
.LP
The
.I rights
argument is specified in the format defined by the
\fBnischmod\fR(1) command. Since only the read ("r") rights are used to
determine who has the right to perform the operation,  the modify and delete
rights may be used to control who can change  access to the operation.
.sp
.LP
The access checking performed for each operation is as follows. When an
operation requires  access be checked on all  directories served by its
.BR rpc.nisd (1M),
access is denied if even one of the directories
prohibits the operation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CHECKPOINT
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check specified directory, or all directories if there is no directory
argument, as is the case when
.B NIS_CHECKPOINT
is issued by the
"\fBnisping -Ca\fR" command. Return \fBNIS_PERMISSION\fR when access
is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_CPTIME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check specified directory. It returns
.B 0
when access  is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_MKDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check parent of specified directory. Returns
.B NIS_PERMISSION
when
access is denied.
.sp
If the parent directory is not available locally, that is, it is not served
by this
.BR rpc.nisd (1M),
.B NIS_MKDIR
access  is allowed, though the
operation will be executed only if this
.B rpc.nisd
is a known replica of
the directory.
.sp
You should note that the
.B NIS_MKDIR
operation does not create  a NIS+
directory; it adds a directory to the serving list for this
.BR rpc.nisd ,
if appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PING
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check specified directory. No return value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_RMDIR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check specified directory.
.B NIS_PERMISSION
is returned when access
denied.
.sp
The
.B NIS_RMDIR
operation does not remove a NIS+ directory; it deletes
the directory from the serving list for this
.BR rpc.nisd ,
if
appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_SERVSTATE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Check access on all directories served by this
.BR rpc.nisd .
If access is
denied for a tag, "\fB<permission denied>\fR" is returned instead of the tag
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_STATUS
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Same as for
.BR NIS_SERVSTATE .
.RE

.sp
.LP
Notice that older clients may not supply authentication information for
some of the operations listed above. These clients are treated as "nobody"
when access checking is performed.
.sp
.LP
The access control is implemented by creating a NIS+ table called
"\fBproto_op_access\fR" in each NIS+ directory to which  access control
should be applied. The table can be manipulated using normal NIS+ commands.
However,
.B nisopaccess
is the only supported interface for NIS+
operation access control.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
List the access control for a single operation, or for all operations that
have access control enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Remove access control for a certain operation on the specified
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Verbose mode.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Enabling  Access Control for the
.B NIS_PING
Operation
.sp
.LP
To enable access control for the
.B NIS_PING
operation on
"\fBorg_dir.`domainname`.\fR" such that only the owner of the directory can
perform a
.BR NIS_PING ,
or change the
.B NIS_PING
rights:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess org_dir NIS_PING o=rmcd,g=,w=,n=\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing the Access to
.BR NIS_PING
.sp
.LP
To list the access to the
.B NIS_PING
operation for
.BR org_dir :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess -l org_dir NIS_PING\fR

NIS_PING    ----rmcd--------    owner.dom.ain.  group.dom.ain.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Removing Access Control for
.BR NIS_PING
.sp
.LP
To remove access control for
.B NIS_PING
on
.BR org_dir :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess -r org_dir NIS_PING\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B other
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Operation failed. The status is usually the return status from a NIS+
command such as
.BR nistbladm .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nischmod (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR rpc.nisd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
