'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nispasswd 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nispasswd \- change NIS+ password information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnispasswd\fR [\fB-ghs\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIdomainname\fR] [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnispasswd\fR \fB-a\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnispasswd\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdomainname\fR] [\fB-d\fR [\fIusername\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnispasswd\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fImin\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fImax\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIwarn\fR]
     [\fB-D\fR \fIdomainname\fR] \fIusername\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nispasswd
utility changes a password,  gecos (finger) field (\fB-g\fR
option), home directory (\fB-h\fR option),  or login shell (\fB-s\fR option)
associated with the
.I username
(invoker by default) in the NIS+ passwd
table.
.sp
.LP
Additionally, the command can be used to view or modify aging information
associated with the user specified  if the invoker has the right NIS+
privileges.
.sp
.LP
.B nispasswd
uses secure RPC to communicate with the NIS+ server,  and
therefore, never sends unencrypted passwords over  the communication medium.
.sp
.LP
.B nispasswd
does not read or modify the local password information stored
in the
.B /etc/passwd
and
.B /etc/shadow
files.
.sp
.LP
When used to change a password,
.B nispasswd
prompts non-privileged users
for their old password.  It then prompts for the new password twice to forestall
typing mistakes. When the old password is entered,
.B nispasswd
checks to see
if it has "aged" sufficiently. If "aging" is insufficient, \fBnispasswd\fR
terminates; see
.BR getspnam (3C).
.sp
.LP
The old password is used to decrypt the username's secret key. If the password
does not decrypt the secret key,
.B nispasswd
prompts for the old secure-RPC
password. It uses this password to decrypt the secret key. If this fails, it
gives the user one more chance. The old password is also used to ensure that the
new password differs from the old by at least three characters. Assuming aging
is sufficient, a check is made to ensure that  the new password meets
construction requirements described below. When the new password is entered a
second time,  the two copies of the new password are compared.  If the two
copies are not identical, the cycle of prompting for  the new password is
repeated twice. The new password is used to  re-encrypt the user's secret key.
Hence, it also becomes their secure-RPC password. Therefore, the secure-RPC
password is no longer a different password from the user's password.
.sp
.LP
Passwords must be constructed to meet the following requirements:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Each password must have at least six characters.  Only the first eight
characters are significant.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Each password must contain at least two alphabetic characters and at least one
numeric or special character. In this case, "alphabetic" refers to all upper or
lower case letters.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Each password must differ from the user's login
.I username
and any
reverse or circular shift of that login
.IR username .
For comparison purposes,
an upper case letter  and its corresponding lower case letter are equivalent.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
New passwords must differ from the  old by at least three characters. For
comparison purposes, an upper  case letter and its corresponding lower case
letter are equivalent.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Network administrators, who own the NIS+ password table, may change any
password attributes  if they establish their credentials (see
.BR keylogin (1))
before invoking
.BR nispasswd .
Hence,
.B nispasswd
does not prompt these
privileged-users for the old password and they are not forced to comply with
password aging and password construction requirements.
.sp
.LP
Any user may use the
.B -d
option to display password attributes for his or
her own login name. The format of the display will be:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIusername\fR \fIstatus\fR \fImm/dd/yy\fR \fImin\fR \fImax\fR \fIwarn\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or, if password aging information is not present,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIusername\fR \fIstatus\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I username
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The login
.B ID
of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I status
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The password status of \fIusername\fR: "PS" stands for password exists or
locked, "LK" stands for locked, and "NP" stands for no password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mm/dd/yy
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The date password was last changed for
.IR username .
(Note that all password
aging dates are determined using Greenwich Mean Time (Universal Time) and,
therefore, may differ by as much as a day in other time zones.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I min
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The minimum number of days required between password changes for
.IR username .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I max
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The maximum number of days the password is valid for
.IR username .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I warn
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The number of days relative to
.I max
before the password expires that the
.I username
will be warned.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The use of
.B nispasswd
is strongly discouraged. It is a wrapper around the
.BR passwd (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
Using
.BR passwd (1)
with the
.B "-r nisplus"
option will achieve the
same result and will be consistent across all the different name services
available. This is the recommended way to change the password in NIS+.
.sp
.LP
The login program, file access display programs (for example, \fBls\fR
.BR -l ),
and network programs that require user passwords, for example,
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR ftp (1),
and so on, use the standard
.BR getpwnam (3C)
and \fBgetspnam\fR(3C) interfaces to get password information. These programs
will get the NIS+ password information, which is modified by
.BR nispasswd ,
only if the
.B passwd:
entry in the
.B /etc/nsswitch.conf
file includes
.BR nisplus .
See
.BR nsswitch.conf (4)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Shows the password attributes for all entries. This will show only the entries
in the NIS+ passwd table in the local domain that the invoker is authorized to
"read".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR [\fIusername\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Displays password attributes for the caller or the user specified if the
invoker has the right privileges.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.I domainname
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Consults the
.B passwd.org_dir
table in
.BR domainname .
If this option is
not specified, the default
.B domainname
returned by
.B nis_local_directory()
will be used. This
.B domainname
is the same as
that returned by
.BR domainname (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Forces the user to change password at the next login  by expiring the password
for
.IR username .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Changes the gecos (finger) information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Changes the home directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Locks the password entry for
.IR username .
Subsequently,
.BR login (1)
would disallow logins with this NIS+ password entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I min
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets minimum field for
.IR username .
The
.I min
field contains the minimum
number of days  between password changes for
.IR username .
If
.I min
is
greater than
.IR max ,
the user may not change the password. Always use this
option with the
.B -x
option, unless
.I max
is set  to
.B -1
(aging
turned off).  In that case,
.I min
need not be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Changes the login shell. By default, only the NIS+ administrator can change the
login shell. The user will be prompted for the new login shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.I warn
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets
.I warn
field for
.IR username .
The
.I warn
field contains the
number of days before the password expires that the user will be warned whenever
he or she attempts to login.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I max
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets maximum field for
.IR username .
The
.I max
field contains the number
of days that  the password is valid for
.IR username .
The aging for
.I username
will be turned off immediately  if
.I max
is set to
.BR -1 .
If it is set to
.BR 0 ,
then the user is forced to change the password  at the
next login session and aging is turned off.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Permission denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Invalid combination of options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Unexpected failure. NIS+ passwd table unchanged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
NIS+ passwd table missing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 5
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
NIS+ is busy. Try again later.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 6
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Invalid argument to option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 7
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Aging is disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 8
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
No memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 9
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
System error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Account expired.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nistbladm (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR domainname (1M),
.BR nisserver (1M),
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getspnam (3C),
.BR nis_local_directory (3NSL),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR shadow (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system.
Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current
Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
