'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nisrmdir 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisrmdir \- remove NIS+ directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisrmdir\fR [\fB-if\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIhostname\fR] \fIdirname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nisrmdir
deletes existing NIS+ subdirectories. It can remove a
directory outright, or simply remove replicas from serving a directory.
.sp
.LP
This command modifies the object that describes the directory
.IR dirname ,
and then notifies each replica to remove the directory named
.IR dirname .
If the notification of any of the affected replicas fails,
the directory object is returned to its original state unless the \fB-f\fR
option is present.
.sp
.LP
This command will fail if the NIS+ master server is not running.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Interactive mode. Like the system
.BR rm (1)
command the
.BR nisrmdir
command will ask for confirmation prior to removing a directory. If the name
specified by
.I dirname
is a non-fully qualified name this option is
forced on. This prevents the removal of unexpected directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Force the command to succeed even though it may not be able to contact the
affected replicas. This option should be used when a replica is known to be
down and will not be able to respond to the removal notification. When the
replica is finally rebooted it will read the updated directory object, note
that it is no longer a replica for that directory, and stop responding to
lookups on that directory. Cleanup of the files that held the now removed
directory can be accomplished manually by removing the appropriate files in
the
.B /var/nis
directory. See
.BR nisfiles (4)
for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " hostname"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify that the host
.B hostname
should be removed as a replica for the
directory named
.IR dirname .
If this option is not present
.IR all
replicas and the master server for a directory are removed and the directory
is removed from the namespace.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Special per-server and per-directory access restrictions may apply when
this command updates the serving lists of the affected NIS+ servers. For
more information, see
.BR nisopaccess (1).
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dirname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An existing NIS+ directory.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B nisrmdir
Command
.sp
.LP
To remove a directory
.B bar
under the
.B foo.com.
domain, one
would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisrmdir bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To remove a replica that is serving directory
.B bar.foo.com.
one would
use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisrmdir -s replica.foo.com. bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To force the removal of directory
.B bar.foo.com.
from the namespace,
one would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisrmdir -f bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
If this variable is set, and the NIS+ directory name is not fully
qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the directory is
found. See
.BR nisdefaults (1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnisopaccess\fR(1),\fBnisrm\fR(1),
.BR nisfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
