'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH on 1 "8 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
on \- execute a command on a remote system with the local environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBon\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fIhost\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIargument\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B on
program is used to execute commands on another system, in an
environment similar to that invoking the program. All environment variables
are passed and the current working directory is preserved. To preserve the
working directory, the working file system must be either already mounted on
the host or be exported to it. Relative path names will only work if they
are within the current file system. Absolute path names may cause
problems.
.sp
.LP
The standard input is connected to the standard input of the remote
command. The standard output and the standard error from the remote command
are sent to the corresponding files for the
.B on
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Debug mode. Prints out some messages as work is being done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Interactive mode. Uses remote echoing and special character processing.
This option is needed for programs that expect to be talking to a terminal.
All terminal modes and window size changes are propagated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
No Input. This option causes the remote program to get EOF when it reads
from the standard input, instead of passing the standard input from the
standard input of the
.B on
program. For example,
.B -n
is necessary
when running commands in the background with job control.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnfscu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chkey (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR rsh (1),
.BR telnet (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unknown host
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Host name not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cannot connect to server
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Host down or not running the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B can't find
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Problem finding the working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B can't locate mount point
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Problem finding current file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RPC: Authentication error
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server requires
.B DES
authentication and you  do not have a secret
key registered with keyserv. Perhaps you logged in without a password. Try
to keylogin.  If that fails, try to set your publickey with chkey.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBon
.IR server :
RPC: can't encode arguments\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B 10240
byte limit for arguments to be encoded and passed from the
sending to the receiving system has been exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Other diagnostic messages may be passed back from the server.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
When the working directory is remote mounted over
.BR NFS ,
a Control-Z
hangs the window.
.sp
.LP
Root cannot use
.BR on .
