'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH optisa 1 "25 Jul 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
optisa \- determine which variant instruction set is optimal to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBoptisa\fR \fIinstruction_set\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B optisa
prints which
.I instruction_set
out of the ones specified
in the command will perform best on  this machine.  In this case, ``best''
is defined by the order  in which instruction set names are returned by
.BR isalist (1).
Possible values for
.I instruction_set
are given in
.BR isalist (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
One of the
.I instruction_set
values you specified is printed by this
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
There is no output; that is, this machine cannot use any
.I instruction_set
that you specified with the
.B optisa
command.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR isalist (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR isalist (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B optisa
is preferable to
.B "uname -p"
or
.BR uname
.B -m
(see
.BR uname (1))
in determining which of several binary
versions of a given program  should be used on the given machine.
