'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pagesize 1 "4 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pagesize \- display the size or sizes of a page of memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pagesize\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pagesize
utility prints the default size of a page of memory in
bytes, as returned by \fBgetpagesize\fR(3C). This program is useful in
constructing portable shell scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints out all possible hardware address translation sizes supported by the
system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ppgsz (1),
.BR getpagesize (3C),
.BR getpagesizes (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
