'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pargs 1 "19 Jun 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pargs \- print  process  arguments,  environment  variables,  or auxiliary
vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpargs\fR [\fB-aceFlx\fR] [\fIpid\fR | \fIcore\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pargs
utility examines a target process or process core file and
prints arguments, environment variables and values, or the process auxiliary
vector.
.sp
.LP
\fBpargs\fR outputs unprintable characters as escaped octal in the format
\fB\e\fIxxx\fR, unless the character is  one of the characters specified
in the "\fBEscape Sequences\fR" section of \fBformats\fR(5), in which case
the character is  printed as specified in that section.
.sp
.LP
\fBpargs\fR attempts to be sensitive to the locale of the target process.
If the target process and the
.B pargs
process do not share a common
character encoding,
.B pargs
attempts to employ the
.BR iconv (3C)
facility to generate a printable version of the extracted  strings. In the
event that such a conversion is impossible, strings are displayed as 7-bit
.BR ASCII .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints process arguments as contained in
.B argv[]
(default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Treats strings  in the target process as  though they were encoded in 7-bit
.BR ASCII ,
regardless of the locale of the target. The use of
.BR iconv (3C)
is suppressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints process environment variables and values as pointed at by the
\fB_environ\fR symbol or by \fBpr_envp\fR in \fB/proc/\fIpid\fR/psinfo\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Force. Grabs the target process even if another process has control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays the arguments as a single command line. The command line is
printed in a manner suitable for interpretation by
.BR /bin/sh .
If the
arguments contain unprintable characters, or if the target process is in a
different locale, a warning message is displayed. The resulting command line
might not be interpreted correctly by
.BR /bin/sh .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints process auxiliary vector.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pid
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Process
.B ID
list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I core
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Process core file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Caution should be exercised when using the
.B -F
flag. Imposing two
controlling processes on one victim process can lead to chaos. Safety is
assured only if the primary controlling process, typically a debugger, has
stopped the victim process and the primary controlling process is doing
nothing at the moment of application of the
.B proc
tool in question.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error has occurred (such as no such process, permission denied, or
invalid option).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /proc/pid/*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Process information and control files.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR proc (1),
.BR iconv (3C),
.BR proc (4),
.BR ascii (5),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
\fBformats\fR(5)
