'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH paste 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
paste \- merge corresponding or subsequent lines of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpaste\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIlist\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B paste
utility will concatenate the corresponding lines of the
given input files, and write the resulting lines to standard output.
.sp
.LP
The default operation of
.B paste
will concatenate the corresponding
lines of the input files. The
.B NEWLINE
character of every line except
the line from the last input file will be replaced with a
.BR TAB
character.
.sp
.LP
If an
.B EOF
(end-of-file) condition is detected on one or more input
files, but not all input files,
.B paste
will behave as though empty
lines were read from the files on which
.B EOF
was detected, unless the
.B -s
option is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I list
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Unless a backslash character (\|\e\|) appears in
.IR list ,
each character
in
.I list
is an element specifying a delimiter character. If a backslash
character appears in
.IR list ,
the backslash character and one or more
characters following it are an element specifying a delimiter character as
described below. These elements specify one or more delimiters to use,
instead of the default
.B TAB
.RB "character, to replace the" " NEWLINE"
character of the input lines. The elements in
.I list
are used
circularly. That is, when the list is exhausted, the first element from the
list is reused.
.sp
When the
.B -s
option is specified:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The last newline character in a file will not be modified.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The delimiter will be reset to the first element of list after each
.I file
operand is processed.
.RE
When the option is not specified:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.B NEWLINE
characters in the file specified by the last \fIfile\fR
will not be modified.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The delimiter will be reset to the first element of
.I list
each time a
line is processed from each file.
.RE
If a backslash character appears in
.IR list ,
it and the character
following it will be used to represent the following delimiter characters:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\en\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Newline character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\et\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Tab character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\e\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Backslash character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e0\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Empty string (not a null character). If \fB\e0\fR is immediately followed
by the character
.BR x ,
the character
.BR X ,
or any character defined by
the
.B "LC_CTYPE digit"
keyword, the results are unspecified.
.RE

If any other characters follow the backslash, the results are
unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Concatenate all of the lines of each separate input file in command line
order. The
.B NEWLINE
character of every line except the last line in
each input file will be replaced with the
.B TAB
character, unless
otherwise specified by the
.B -d
option.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If \fB\(mi\fR is specified for one or more of
the \fIfile\fRs, the standard input will be used. The standard input will be
read one line at a time, circularly, for each instance of \fB\(mi\fR\&.
Implementations support pasting of at least 12
.I file
operands.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR paste
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Listing a directory in one column
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls | paste -d" " \(mi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing a directory in four columns
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls | paste \(mi \(mi \(mi \(mi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Combining pairs of lines from a file into single lines
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpaste -s -d"\e t\e n" file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR paste :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cut (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR pr (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB"line too long"\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Output lines are restricted to 511 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB"too many files"\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Except for
.B -s
option, no more than 12 input files may be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB"no delimiters"\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.B -d
option was specified with an empty list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB"cannot open \fBfile\fB"\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The specified file cannot be opened.
.RE

