'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pfexec 1 "3 Mar 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pfexec, pfsh, pfcsh, pfksh \- execute a command in a profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfexec\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfexec\fR \fB-P\fR \fIprivspec\fR \fIcommand\fR [ \fIarg\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfsh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfcsh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfksh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pfexec
program is used to execute commands with the attributes
specified by the user's profiles in the
.BR exec_attr (4)
database. It is
invoked by the profile shells,
.BR pfsh ,
.BR pfcsh ,
and
.B pfksh
which are linked to the Bourne shell, C shell, and Korn shell,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
Profiles are searched in the order specified in the user's entry in the
.BR user_attr (4)
database. If the same command appears in more than one
profile, the profile shell uses the first matching entry.
.sp
.LP
The second form,
.B "pfexec -P"
.IR privspec ,
allows a user to
obtain the additional privileges awarded to the user's profiles in
.BR prof_attr (4).
The privileges specification on the commands line is
parsed using
.BR priv_str_to_set "(3C). The resulting privileges are"
intersected with the union of the privileges specified using the
"\fBprivs\fR" keyword in \fBprof_attr\fR(4) for all the user's profiles and
added to the inheritable set before executing the command.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
.B pfexec
is used to execute commands with predefined process
attributes, such as specific user or group
.BR ID s.
.sp
.LP
Refer to the
.BR sh (1),
.BR csh (1),
and
.BR ksh (1)
man pages for
complete usage descriptions of the profile shells.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Obtaining additional user privileges
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpfexec -P all chown user file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command runs
.B "chown user file"
with all privileges assigned to the
current user, not necessarily all privileges.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR profiles (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR exec_attr (4),
.BR prof_attr (4),
.BR user_attr (4),
.BR attributes (5)
