'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pg 1 "25 Feb 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pg \- files perusal filter for CRTs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpg\fR [\fB-\fInumber\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-cefnrs\fR] [+ \fIlinenumber\fR]
     [+/ \fIpattern\fR /] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pg
command is a filter that allows the examination of
.I filenames
one screenful at a time on a CRT. If the user types a
RETURN, another page is displayed; other possibilities are listed below.
.sp
.LP
This command is different from previous paginators in that it allows you to
back up and review something that has already passed. The method for doing
this is explained below.
.sp
.LP
To determine terminal attributes,
.B pg
scans the
.BR terminfo (4)
data
base for the terminal type specified by the environment variable
.BR TERM .
If
.B TERM
is not defined, the terminal type
.B dumb
is assumed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\fInumber\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An integer specifying the size (in lines) of the window that
.B pg
is to
use instead of the default. (On a terminal containing 24 lines, the default
window size is 23).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fIstring\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
.B pg
uses
.I string
as the prompt. If the prompt string contains a
.BR %d ,
the first occurrence of
.B %d
in the prompt will be replaced by
the current page number when the prompt is issued. The default prompt string
is ``\fB:\fR''.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Home the cursor and clear the screen before displaying each page. This
option is ignored if
.B clear_screen
is not defined for this terminal
type in the
.BR terminfo (4)
data base.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
.B pg
does
.I not
pause at the end of each file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Normally,
.B pg
splits lines longer than the screen width, but some
sequences of characters in the text being displayed (for instance, escape
sequences for underlining) generate undesirable results. The
.B -f
option
inhibits
.B pg
from splitting lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Normally, commands must be terminated by a <\fInewline\fR> character. This
option causes an automatic end of command as soon as a command letter is
entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Restricted mode. The shell escape is disallowed.
.B pg
prints an error
message but does not exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
.B pg
prints all messages and prompts in the standard output mode
(usually inverse video).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIlinenumber\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Start up at
.IR linenumber .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+/\fIpattern\fB/\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Start up at the first line containing the regular expression pattern.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filename
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A path name of a text file to be displayed. If no
.I filename
is given,
or if it is \(mi, the standard input is read.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.LP
The responses that may be typed when
.B pg
pauses can be divided into
three categories: those causing further perusal, those that search, and
those that modify the perusal environment.
.sp
.LP
Commands that cause further perusal normally take a preceding
.IR address ,
an optionally signed number indicating the point from which
further text should be displayed. This
.I address
is interpreted in
.RI "either pages or lines depending on the command. A signed" " address"
specifies a point relative to the current page or line, and an unsigned
.I address
specifies an address relative to the beginning of the file.
Each command has a default address that is used if none is provided.
.sp
.LP
The perusal commands and their defaults are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB(+1)<\fInewline\fR> or <\fIblank\fR>\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
This causes one page to be displayed. The address is specified in pages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (+1) l
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
With a relative address this causes
.B pg
to simulate scrolling the
screen, forward or backward, the number of lines specified. With an absolute
address this command prints a screenful beginning at the specified line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (+1) d
or
.BR ^D
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Simulates scrolling half a screen forward or backward.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fBf\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Skip
.I i
screens of text.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fBz\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Same as <\fInewline\fR> except that
.IR i ,
if present, becomes the new
default number of lines per screenful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following perusal commands take no
.IR address .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.\fR or \fB^L\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Typing a single period causes the current page of text to be redisplayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Displays the last full window in the file. Use with caution when the input
is a pipe.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following commands are available for searching for text patterns in the
text. The regular expressions are described on the
.BR regex (5)
manual
page. They must always be terminated by a <\fInewline\fR>, even if the
.B -n
option is specified.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fB/\fIpattern\fB/\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Search forward for the \fIi\fRth (default \fIi\fR=1) occurrence of
.IR pattern .
Searching begins immediately after the current page and
continues to the end of the current file, without wrap-around.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fB^\fIpattern\fB^\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fB?\fIpattern\fB?\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Search backwards for the \fIi\fRth (default \fIi\fR=1) occurrence of
.IR pattern .
Searching begins immediately before the current page and
continues to the beginning of the current file, without wrap-around. The ^
notation is useful for Adds 100 terminals which will not properly handle the
?.
.RE

.sp
.LP
After searching,
.B pg
will normally display the line found at the top
of the screen. This can be modified by appending
.B m
or
.B b
to the
search command to leave the line found in the middle or at the bottom of the
window from now on. The suffix
.B t
can be used to restore the original
situation.
.sp
.LP
The user of
.B pg
can modify the environment of perusal with the
following commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fBn\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Begin perusing the \fIi\fRth next file in the command line. The
.I i
is
an unsigned number, default value is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fBp\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Begin perusing the \fIi\fRth previous file in the command line.
.I i
is
an unsigned number, default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIi\fBw\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Display another window of text. If
.I i
is present, set the window size
to
.IR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.I filename
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Save the input in the named file. Only the current file being perused is
saved. The white space between the
.B s
and
.I filename
is optional.
This command must always be terminated by a <\fInewline\fR>, even if the
.B -n
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Help by displaying an abbreviated summary of available commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B q
or
.BR Q
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Quit
.BR pg .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !command
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.I Command
is passed to the shell, whose name is taken from the
.B SHELL
environment variable. If this is not available, the default
shell is used. This command must always be terminated by a <\fInewline\fR>,
even if the
.B -n
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can hit the
quit key (normally CTRL-\e) or the interrupt (break) key. This causes
.B pg
to stop sending output, and display the prompt. The user may then
enter one of the above commands in the normal manner. Unfortunately, some
output is lost when this is done, because any characters waiting in the
terminal's output queue are flushed when the quit signal occurs.
.sp
.LP
If the standard output is not a terminal, then
.B pg
acts just like
.BR cat (1),
except that a header is printed before each file (if there is
more than one).
.SS "Large File Behavior"
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B pg
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An example of the
.B pg
command.
.sp
.LP
The following command line uses
.B pg
to read the system news:

.sp
.LP
\fBexample% news | pg\fR \fB-p "(Page %d):"\fR

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR pg :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.LP
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.BR pg :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B COLUMNS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the horizontal screen size. If unset or
.I NULL,
use the value
of
.BR TERM ,
the window size, baud rate, or some combination of these, to
indicate the terminal type for the screen size calculation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LINES
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the number of lines to be displayed on the screen. If unset or
.I NULL,
use the value of
.BR TERM ,
the window size, baud rate, or some
combination of these, to indicate the terminal type for the screen size
calculation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHELL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine the name of the command interpreter executed for a !command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TERM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Determine terminal attributes. Optionally attempt to search a
system-dependent database, keyed on the value of the
.B TERM
environment
variable. If no information is available, a terminal incapable of
cursor-addressable movement is assumed.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/pg*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
temporary file when input is from a pipe
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
terminal information database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cat (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR terminfo (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR regex (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While waiting for terminal input,
.B pg
responds to BREAK, CTRL-C, and
CTRL\(mi\e by terminating execution. Between prompts, however, these signals
interrupt
.BR pg "'s current task and place the user in prompt mode. These"
should be used with caution when input is being read from a pipe, since an
interrupt is likely to terminate the other commands in the pipeline.
.sp
.LP
The terminal
.BR / ,
.BR ^ ,
or
.B ?
may be omitted from the searching
commands.
.sp
.LP
If terminal tabs are not set every eight positions, undesirable results may
occur.
.sp
.LP
When using
.B pg
as a filter with another command that changes the
terminal I/O options, terminal settings may not be restored correctly.
