'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH plabel 1 "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
plabel \- get the label of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/plabel\fR [\fB-sS\fR] [\fIpid\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.BR plabel ,
a proc tools command, gets the label of a process. If the
.I pid
is not specified, the label displayed is that of the \fBplabel\fR
command. When options are not specified, the output format of the label is
displayed in default format.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the label that is associated with
.I pid
in short form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the label that is associated with
.I pid
in long form.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
.B plabel
exits with one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Unsuccessful completion because of a usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Inability to translate label.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Inability to allocate memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B plabel
utility is Committed. The output is Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR proc (1),
.BR getplabel (3TSOL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
