'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH plimit 1 "8 Jun 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
plimit \- get or set the resource limits of running processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBplimit\fR [\fB-km\fR] \fIpid\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBplimit\fR {\fB-cdfnstv\fR} \fIsoft\fR,\fIhard\fR.\|.\|. pid.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If one or more of the
.B cdfnstv
options is specified,
.B plimit
sets
the soft (current) limit and/or the hard (maximum) limit of the indicated
resource(s) in the processes identified by the process-ID list,
.IR pid .
Otherwise
.B plimit
reports the resource limits of the processes
identified by the process-ID list,
.IR pid .
.sp
.LP
Only the owner of a process or the super-user is permitted either to get or
to set the resource limits of a process. Only the super-user can increase
the hard limit.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
On output, show file sizes in kilobytes (1024 bytes) rather than in
512-byte blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
On output, show file and memory sizes in megabytes (1024*1024 bytes).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The remainder of the options are used to change specified resource limits.
They each accept an argument of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fIsoft\fR,\fIhard\fR
.sp
.LP
.RI "where " soft " specifies the soft (current) limit and " hard 
specifies the hard (maximum) limit. If the hard limit is not specified, the
comma may be omitted. If the soft limit is an empty string, only the hard
limit is set. Each limit is either the literal string
.BR unlimited ,
or a
number, with an optional scaling factor, as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB n k
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.I n
kilobytes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB n m
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.I n
megabytes (minutes for CPU time)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IB n h
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
.I n
hours (for CPU time only)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fImm\fB:\fIss\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
minutes and seconds (for CPU time only)
.RE

.sp
.LP
The soft limit cannot exceed the hard limit.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set core file size limits (default unit is 512-byte blocks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set data segment (heap) size limits (default unit is kilobytes).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -f " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set file size limits (default unit is 512-byte blocks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set file descriptor limits (no default unit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set stack segment size limits (default unit is kilobytes).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set CPU time limits (default unit is seconds).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -v " soft,hard"
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set virtual memory size limits (default unit is kilobytes).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pid
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Process ID list.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
.B plimit
returns the exit value zero on success, non-zero on failure
(such as no such process, permission denied, or invalid option).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/proc/\fIpid\fB/*\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
process information and control files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ulimit (1),
.BR proc (1),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR setrlimit (2),
.BR proc (4),
.BR attributes (5),
