'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH postreverse 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postreverse \- reverse the page order in a PostScript file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostreverse\fR [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postreverse\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B postreverse
filter reverses the page order in files that conform
to Adobe's Version 1.0 or Version 2.0 file structuring conventions, and
writes the results on the standard output. Only one input
.B file
is
allowed and if no
.B file
is specified, the standard input is read.
.sp
.LP
The
.B postreverse
filter can handle a limited class of files that
violate page independence, provided all global definitions are bracketed by
.B %%BeginGlobal
and
.B %%EndGlobal
comments. In addition, files that
mark the end of each page with
.B "%%EndPage: label ordinal"
comments will
also reverse properly, provided the prologue and trailer sections can be
located. If
.B postreverse
fails to find an
.B %%EndProlog
or
.B %%EndSetup
comment, the entire
.B file
is copied, unmodified, to
the standard output.
.sp
.LP
Because global definitions are extracted from individual pages and put in
the prologue, the output file can be minimally conforming, even if the input
.B file
was not.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " list"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Select pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The
.I list
contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.I N1
\(mi
.IR N2 .
A missing
.I N1
means the lowest numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages
rather than physical sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two
logical pages to a sheet, and you specified a range of
.BR 4 ,
then two
sheets of paper would print, containing four page layouts. If you specified
a page range of
.BR 3-4 ,
when requesting two logical pages to a sheet;
then
.I only
page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would appear
on one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not reverse the pages in
.BR file .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of
.BR postreverse .
.sp
.LP
o select pages 1 to 100 from
.B file
and reverse the pages:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postreverse \fB-o1\fB\(mi100 \fBfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To print four logical pages on each physical page and reverse all the
pages:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postprint \fB-n4\fB \fBfile\fR | postreverse
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To produce a minimally conforming file from output generated by
.BR dpost
without reversing the pages:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% dpost \fBfile\fR | postreverse \fB-r\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
No attempt has been made to deal with redefinitions of global variables or
procedures. If standard input is used, the input
.B file
will be read
three times before being reversed.
