'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH postdaisy 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postdaisy \- PostScript translator for Diablo 630 daisy-wheel files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostdaisy\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fInum \fR]
     [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postdaisy\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B postdaisy
filter translates Diablo 630 daisy-wheel \fIfiles\fR
into PostScript and writes the results on the standard output. If no
.I files
are specified, or if \(mi is one of the input
.IR files ,
the
standard input is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
copies of each page. By default only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI name\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I files
using font
.IR name .
Any PostScript font can be used,
although the best results will be obtained only with constant-width fonts.
The default font is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -h " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the initial horizontal motion index to
.IR num .
Determines the
character advance and the default point size, unless the
.B -s
option is
used. The default is
.BR 12 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.IR num .
Pages are scaled
uniformly about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of
each page. The default magnification is
.BR 1.0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper, where
.I num
can
be any positive integer. By default,
.I num
is set to
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " list"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The
list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.I N1
\(mi
.IR N2 .
A
missing
.I N1
means the lowest numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means
the highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages rather than
physical sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two logical pages
to a sheet, and you specified a range of
.BR 4 ,
then two sheets of paper
would print, containing four page layouts. If you specified a page range of
.BR 3-4 ,
.RI "when requesting two logical pages to a sheet; then" " only"
page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would appear on one physical
sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " mode"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I files
in either portrait or landscape
.IR mode .
Only the
first character of
.I mode
is significant. The default
.I mode
is
portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Selects carriage return and line feed behavior. If
.I num
is 1, a line
feed generates a carriage return. If
.I num
is 2, a carriage return
generates a line feed. Setting
.I num
to 3 enables both modes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use point size
.I num
instead of the default value set by the initial
horizontal motion index.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -v " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the initial vertical motion index to
.IR num .
The default is
.BR 8 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -x " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis. The
default coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of
the page, with positive x to the right and positive y down the page.
Positive
.I num
moves everything right. The default offset is  \fB0.25\fR
inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -y " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis. Positive
.I num
moves text up the page. The default offset is  \fB\(mi0.25\fR
inches.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR postreverse (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
