'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH postio 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postio \- serial interface for PostScript printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostio\fR \fB-l\fR \fIline\fR [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIspeed\fR] [\fB-B\fR \fInum\fR]
     [\fB-L\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postio\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpostio\fR sends \fIfiles\fR to the PostScript printer attached to
\fIline.\fR If no \fIfiles\fR are specified the standard input is sent.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The first group of
.I options
should be sufficient for most
applications:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Enable debug mode. Guarantees that everything read on
.B line
will be
added to the log file (standard error by default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prevents status queries while \fIfiles\fR are being sent to the printer.
When status queries are disabled a dummy message is appended to the log file
before each block is transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -b " speed"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Transmit data over
.B line
at baud rate
.IR speed .
Recognized baud
rates are 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, and 19200. The default
.I speed
is
\fB9600\fR baud.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -B " num"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Set the internal buffer size for reading and writing \fIfiles\fR to
\fInum\fR bytes. By default \fInum\fR is  \fB2048\fR bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -l " line"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Connect to the printer attached to
.BR line .
In most cases there is no
default and
.B postio
must be able to read and write
.BR line .
If the
\fBline\fR does not begin with a \fB/\fR it may be treated as a Datakit
destination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-L\fI file\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Data received on
.B line
gets put in
.BR file .
The default log
\fBfile\fR is standard error. Printer or status messages that don't show a
change in state are not normally written to \fBfile\fR but can be forced out
using the
.B -D
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -P " string"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Send
.I string
to the printer before any of the input files. The default
\fIstring\fR is simple PostScript code that disables timeouts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -R " num"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Run
.B postio
as a single process if
.I num
is 1 or as separate read
and write processes if
.I num
is 2. By default
.B postio
runs as a
single process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The next two
.I options
are provided for users who expect to run
\fBpostio\fR on their own. Neither is suitable for use in spooler interface
programs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Run the program in interactive mode. Any \fIfiles\fR are sent first and
followed by the standard input. Forces separate read and write processes and
overrides many other options. To exit interactive mode use your interrupt or
quit character. To get a friendly interactive connection with the printer
type
.B executive
on a line by itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Data received on
.B line
and not recognized as printer or status
information is written to the standard output. Forces separate read and write
processes. Convenient if you have a PostScript program that will be returning
useful data to the host.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The last option is not generally recommended and should only be used if all
else fails to provide a reliable connection:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Slow the transmission of data to the printer. Severely limits throughput,
runs as a single process, disables the
.B -q
option, limits the internal
buffer size to 1024 bytes, can use an excessive amount of CPU time, and does
nothing in interactive mode.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The best performance will usually be obtained by using a large internal
buffer (the
.B -B
option) and by running the program as separate read and
write processes (the \fB-R\fB 2\fR option). Inability to fork the
additional process causes
.B postio
to continue as a single read/write
process. When one process is used, only data sent to the printer is flow
controlled.
.sp
.LP
The
.I options
are not all mutually exclusive. The
.B -i
option always
wins, selecting its own settings for whatever is needed to run interactive
mode, independent of anything else found on the command line. Interactive
mode runs as separate read and write processes and few of the other
\fIoptions\fR accomplish anything in the presence of the \fB-i\fR option. The
\fB-t\fR option  needs a reliable two way connection to the printer and
therefore tries to force separate read and write processes. The \fB-S\fR
option relies on the status query mechanism, so
.B -q
is disabled and the
program runs as a single process.
.sp
.LP
In most cases
.B postio
starts by making a connection to
.B line
and
then attempts to force the printer into the  IDLE state by sending an
appropriate sequence of
.B ^T
(status query),
.B ^C
(interrupt), and
\fB^D\fR (end of job) characters. When the printer goes IDLE, \fIfiles\fR are
transmitted along with an occasional
.B ^T
(unless the
.B -q
option
was used). After all the \fIfiles\fR are sent the program waits until it's
reasonably sure the job is complete. Printer generated error messages
received at any time  except while establishing the initial connection (or
when running interactive mode) cause
.B " postio"
to exit with a non-zero
status. In addition to being added to the log file, printer error messages
are also echoed to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of the \fBpostio\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Run as a single process at 9600 baud and send  \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR
to the printer attached to
.BR /dev/tty01 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fB-l\fB /dev/tty01 \fIfile1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Same as above except two processes are used, the internal buffer is set to
4096 bytes, and data returned by the printer gets put in file
.IR log :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fB-R\fB 2 \fB-B\fB 4096 \fB-l/dev/tty01\fB \fB-L\fB \fIlog file1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Establish an interactive connection with  the printer at Datakit destination
.IR my/printer :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fB-i\fB \fB-l\fB \fImy/printer\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Send file program to the printer connected to
.BR /dev/tty22 ,
recover any
data in file results,  and put log messages in file
.IR log :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fB-t\fB \fB-l\fB /dev/tty22 \fB-L\fB \fIlog program\fR >\fIresults\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR postreverse (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The input \fIfiles\fR are handled as a single PostScript job. Sending
several different jobs, each with their own internal end of job mark
(\fB^D\fR) is not guaranteed to work properly. \fBpostio\fR may quit before
all the jobs have completed and could be restarted before the last one
finishes.
.sp
.LP
All the capabilities described above may not be available on every machine
or even across  the different versions of the UNIX system that are currently
supported by the program.
.sp
.LP
There may be no default
.BR line ,
so using the
.B -l
option  is
strongly recommended. If omitted,
.B postio
may attempt to connect to the
printer using the standard output. If Datakit is involved,  the \fB-b\fR
option may be ineffective  and attempts by
.B postio
to impose flow
control over data in both directions may not work. The
.B -q
option can
help if the printer is connected to RADIAN. The
.B -S
option  is not
generally recommended and should be used only if all other attempts to
establish a reliable connection fail.
