'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH postdmd 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postdmd \- PostScript translator for DMD bitmap files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostdmd\fR [\fB-b\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postdmd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B postdmd
translates DMD bitmap
.IR files ,
as produced by
.IR dmdps ,
or
.I files
written in the Ninth Edition \fBbitfile\fR(9.5)
format into PostScript and writes the results on the standard output. If no
.I files
are specified, or if \(mi is one of the input
.IR files ,
the
standard input is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -b " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pack the bitmap in the output file using
.I num
byte patterns. A value
of
.B 0
turns off all packing of the output file. By default,
.I num
is
.BR 6 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
copies of each page. By default only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Flip the sense of the bits in
.I files
before printing the bitmaps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.IR num .
Pages are scaled
uniformly about the origin, which by default is located at the center of
each page. The default magnification is
.BR 1.0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper, where
.I num
can
be any positive integer. By default
.I num
is set to
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " list"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The
list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.I N1
\(mi
.IR N2 .
A
missing
.I N1
means the lowest numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means
the highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages rather than
physical sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two logical pages
to a sheet, and you specified a range of
.BR 4 ,
then two sheets of paper
would print, containing four page layouts. If you specified a page range of
.BR 3-4 ,
.RI "when requesting two logical pages to a sheet; then" " only"
page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would appear on one physical
sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " mode"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I files
in either portrait or landscape
.IR mode .
Only the
first character of
.I mode
is significant. The default
.I mode
is
portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -x " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis. The
default coordinate system has the origin fixed at the center of the page,
.RI "with positive x to the right and positive y up the page. Positive" " num"
moves everything right. The default offset is
.B 0
inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -y " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis. Positive
.I num
moves everything up the page. The default offset is
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.LP
Only one bitmap is printed on each logical page, and each of the input
.I files
must contain complete descriptions of at least one bitmap.
Decreasing the pattern size using the
.B -b
option may help throughput on
printers with fast processors (such as PS-810s), while increasing the
pattern size will often be the right move on older models (such as
PS-800s).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postprint (1),
.BR postreverse (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
