'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH postprint 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postprint \- PostScript translator for text files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostprint\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fI num\fR]
     [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postprint\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B postprint
filter translates text \fIfiles\fR into PostScript and
writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are specified,
or if \fB\(mi\fR is one of the input
.IR files ,
the standard input is
read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
copies of each page. By default, only one copy is
printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI name\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print \fIfiles\fR using font
.IR name .
Any PostScript font can be used,
although the best results will be obtained only with constant width fonts.
The default font is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -l " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the length of a page to
.I num
lines. By default,
.I num
is
.BR 66 .
Setting
.I num
to
.B 0
is allowed, and will cause
\fBpostprint\fR to guess a value, based on the point size that's being
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.IR num .
Pages are scaled
uniformly about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of
each page. The default magnification is 
.BR 1.0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper, where
.I num
can
be any positive integer. By default,
.I num
is set to
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " list"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The
\fIlist\fR contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges \fIN1\fR \(mi\fI
N2\fR. A missing \fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page, a missing \fIN2\fR
means the highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages rather
than physical sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two logical
pages to a  sheet, and you specified a range of
.BR 4 ,
then two sheets of
paper would print, containing four  page layouts. If you specified a page
range of
.BR 3-4 ,
when requesting two logical pages to a sheet; then
\fIonly\fR page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would appear on
one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -p " mode"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape
.IR mode .
Only the
first character of
.I mode
is significant. The default
.I mode
is
portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Selects carriage return behavior. Carriage returns are ignored if \fInum\fR
is
.BR 0 ,
cause a return to column 1 if
.I num
is
.BR 1 ,
and
generate a newline if
.I num
is
.BR 2 .
The default
.I num
is
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Print \fIfiles\fR using point size
.IR num .
When printing in landscape
mode
.I num
is scaled by a factor that depends on the imaging area of the
device. The default size for portrait mode is
.BR 10 .
Note that
increasing point size increases virtual image size, so you either need to
load larger paper, or use the \fB\(mil0\fR option to scale the number of
lines per page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Assume tabs are set every
.I num
columns, starting with the first
column. By default, tabs are set every
.B 8
columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -x " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis. The
default coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of
the page, with positive x to the right and positive y down the page.
Positive
.I num
moves everything to the right. The default offset is
\fB0.25\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -y " num"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves text up the page. The default offset is  \fB\(mi0.25\fR
inches.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A new logical page is started  after 66 lines have been printed on the
current page,  or whenever an ASCII form feed character is read. The number
of lines per page can be changed using the
.B -l
option. Unprintable
ASCII characters are ignored, and lines that are too long are silently
truncated by the printer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of \fBpostprint\fR.
.sp
.LP
To print \fIfile1\fR  and  \fIfile2\fR  in landscape mode, issue the
following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postprint \fB-pland\fB \fIfile1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To print three logical pages on each physical page in portrait mode:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postprint \fB-n3\fB \fBfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpsf
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR download (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR postdaisy (1),
.BR postdmd (1),
.BR postio (1),
.BR postmd (1),
.BR postreverse (1),
.BR posttek (1),
.BR attributes (5)
