'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pr 1 "18 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pr \- print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pr\fR [+ \fIpage\fR] [\fB-column\fR] [\fB-adFmrt\fR] [\fB-e\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIgap\fR]]
     [\fB-h\fR \fIheader\fR] [\fB-i\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIgap\fR]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlines\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIwidth\fR]] [\fB-o\fR \fIoffset\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fIchar\fR]]
     [\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-fp\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/pr\fR [+ \fIpage\fR] [\fB-column\fR | \fB-c\fR \fIcolumn\fR] [\fB-adFmrt\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIgap\fR]] [\fB-h\fR \fIheader\fR] [\fB-i\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIgap\fR]]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlines\fR] [\fB-n\fR [\fIchar\fR] [\fIwidth\fR]] [\fB-o\fR \fIoffset\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR [\fIchar\fR]] [\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-fp\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pr
utility is a printing and pagination filter. If multiple input
files are specified, each is read, formatted, and written to standard
output. By default, the input is separated into 66-line pages, each with:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a 5-line header that includes the page number, date, time and the path name
of the file
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a 5-line trailer consisting of blank lines
.RE
.sp
.LP
If standard output is associated with a terminal, diagnostic messages will
be deferred until the
.B pr
utility has completed processing.
.sp
.LP
When options specifying multi-column output are specified, output text
columns will be of equal width; input lines that do not fit into a text
column will be truncated. By default, text columns are separated with at
least one blank character.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. In the following option descriptions,
.IR column ,
.IR lines ,
\fIoffset\fR,
.IR page ,
and
.I width
are
positive decimal integers;
.I gap
is a non-negative decimal integer. Some
of the option-arguments are optional, and some of the option-arguments
cannot be specified as separate arguments from the preceding option letter.
In particular, the
.B -s
option does not allow the option letter to be
separated from its argument, and the options
.BR -e ,
.BR -i ,
and
\fB-n\fR require that both arguments, if present, not be separated from the
option letter.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for both
.B /usr/bin/pr
and
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/pr :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIpage\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Begins output at page number
.I page
of the formatted input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\fIcolumn\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Produces multi-column output that is arranged in
.I column
columns
(default is
.BR 1 )
and is written down each column in the order in which
the text is received from the input file. This option should not be used
with
.BR -m .
The
.B -e
and
.B -i
options will be assumed for
multiple text-column output. Whether or not text columns are produced with
identical vertical lengths is unspecified, but a text column will never
exceed the length of the page (see the
.B -l
option). When used with
.BR -t ,
use the minimum number of lines to write the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Modifies the effect of the \fB-\fIcolumn\fR option so that the columns
are filled across the page in a round-robin order (for example, when
\fIcolumn\fR is 2, the first input line heads column 1, the second heads
column 2, the third is the second line in column 1, and so forth).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
.RB "Produces output that is double-spaced; append an extra" " NEWLINE"
character following every
.B NEWLINE
character found in the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fB\|[\|\fIchar\fB\|][\|\fIgap\fB\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Expands each input
.B TAB
character to the next greater column position
specified by the formula
.IR "n *gap+1" ,
where
.I n
is an integer
.BR >0 .
If
.I gap
is
.B 0
or is omitted, it defaults to
.BR 8 .
All
\fBTAB\fR characters in the input will be expanded into the appropriate
number of
.B SPACE
characters.  If any non-digit character, \fIchar\fR,
is specified, it will be used as the input tab character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Uses a
.B FORMFEED
character for new pages, instead of the default
behavior that uses a sequence of
.B NEWLINE
characters. Pauses before
beginning the first page if the standard output is associated with a
terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fR \fIheader\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Uses the string
.I header
to replace the contents of the \fIfile\fR
operand in the page header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlines\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Overrides the 66-line default and reset the page length to
.IR lines .
If
\fIlines\fR is not greater than the sum of both the header and trailer
depths (in lines),
.B pr
will suppress both the header and trailer, as if
the
.B -t
option were in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Merges files. Standard output will be formatted so
.B pr
writes one line
from each file specified by
.IR file ,
side by side into text columns of
equal fixed widths, in terms of the number of column positions.
Implementations support merging of at least nine \fIfile\fRs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\|[\|\fIchar\fB\|][\|\fIwidth\fB\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Provides \fIwidth\fR-digit line numbering (default for
.I width
is
.BR 5 ).
The number will occupy the first
.I width
column positions of
each text column of default output or each line of
.B -m
output. If
\fIchar\fR (any non-digit character) is given, it will be appended to the
line number to separate it from whatever follows (default for
.I char
is
a
.B TAB
character).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIoffset\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Each line of output will be preceded by offset <space>s. If the \fB-o\fR
option is not specified, the default offset is
.BR 0 .
The space taken will
be in addition to the output line width (see
.B -w
option below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Pauses before beginning each page if the standard output is directed to a
terminal (\fBpr\fR will write an
.B ALERT
character to standard error and
wait for a carriage-return character to be read on \fB/dev/tty\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Writes no diagnostic reports on failure to open files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fB[\fIchar\fB]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Separates text columns by the single character
.I char
instead of by the
appropriate number of
.B SPACE
characters (default for
.I char
is the
\fBTAB\fR character).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Writes neither the five-line identifying header nor the five-line trailer
usually supplied for each page. Quits writing after the last line of each
file without spacing to the end of the page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fR \fIwidth\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Sets the width of the line to
.I width
column positions for multiple
text-column output only. If the
.B -w
option is not specified and the
\fB-s\fR option is not specified, the default width is
.BR 72 .
If the
\fB-w\fR option is not specified and the \fB-s\fR option is specified, the
default width is
.BR 512 .
.sp
For single column output, input lines will not be truncated.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/pr"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/bin/pr
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Folds the lines of the input file. When used in multi-column mode (with the
\fB-a\fR or \fB-m\fR options), lines will be folded to fit the current
column's width. Otherwise, they will be folded to fit the current line width
(80 columns).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fB\|[\|\fIchar\fB\|][\|\fIgap\fB\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
In output, replaces
.B SPACE
characters with
.B TAB
characters
wherever one or more adjacent
.B SPACE
characters reach column positions
.IR gap+1 ,
.IR 2*gap+1 ,
.IR 3*gap+1 ,
and so forth. If
.I gap
is
\fB0\fR or is omitted, default \fBTAB\fR settings at every eighth column
position are assumed. If any non-digit character,
.IR char ,
is specified,
it will be used as the output
.B TAB
character.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/pr"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/pr
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Uses a
.B FORMFEED
character for new pages, instead of the default
behavior that uses a sequence of
.B NEWLINE
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fB\|[\|\fIchar\fB\|][\|\fIgap\fB\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
In output, replaces multiple
.B SPACE
characters with
.BR TAB
characters wherever two or more adjacent
.B SPACE
characters reach column
positions
.IR gap+1 ,
.IR 2*gap+1 ,
.IR 3*gap+1 ,
and so forth. If
\fIgap\fR is \fB0\fR or is omitted, default \fBTAB\fR settings at every
eighth column position are assumed. If any non-digit character, \fIchar\fR,
is specified, it will be used as the output
.B TAB
character.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of a file to be written. If no \fIfile\fR operands are
specified, or if a \fIfile\fR operand is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input will
be used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Printing a numbered list of all files in the current
directory
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls -a | pr -n -h "Files in $(pwd)."\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Printing files in columns
.sp
.LP
This example prints \fBfile1\fR and \fBfile2\fR as a double-spaced,
three-column listing headed by \fBfile list\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpr -3d -h "file list" file1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Writing files with expanded column tabs
.sp
.LP
The following example writes \fBfile1\fR on
.BR file2 ,
expanding tabs to
columns
.BR 10 ,
.BR 19 ,
.BR 28 ,
\&...

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpr -e9 -t <file1 >file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR pr :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR TZ ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/pr"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/pr"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR expand (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
