'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH print 1 "27 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
print \- shell built-in function to output characters to the screen or
window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBprint\fR [\fB-Rnprsu\fR [\fIn\fR]] [\fIarg\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBprint\fR [\fB-Renprs\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIfd\fR] [\fIstring\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The shell output mechanism. When no options are specified, or when an
option followed by
.B
\&'
a
.B
\(mi \c 
is specified, or when just \fB-\fR
is specified, the arguments are printed on standard output as described by
.BR echo (1).
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B print
writes each string operand to standard output and
appends a NEWLINE character.
.sp
.LP
Unless, the
.BR -r ,
.BR -R ,
or
.B -f
option is speciifed, each
.B
\e \c
character in each string operand is processed specially as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ea\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Alert character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eb\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Backspace character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ec\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Terminate output without appending NEWLINE. The remaining string operands
are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\eE\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Escape character (\fBASCII\fR octal
.BR 033 ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ef\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
FORM FEED character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\en\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
NEWLINE character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\et\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Tab character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\ev\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Vertical tab character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\e\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Backslash character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e0\fIx\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The 8-bit character whose
.B ASCII
code is the
.BR 1 -,
\fB2\fR-, or
\fB3\fR-digit octal number
.IR x .
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR ksh :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Suppresses
.B new-line
from being added to the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r-R
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Raw mode. Ignore the escape conventions of
.BR echo .
The
.B -R
option
prints all subsequent arguments and options other than
.BR -n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Cause the arguments to be written onto the pipe of the process spawned with
.B |&
instead of standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Cause the arguments to be written onto the history file instead of standard
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
[
.IR n " ]"
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specify a one digit file descriptor unit number
.I n
on which the output
is placed. The default is 1.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Unless
.B -f
is specified, process \fB\e\fR sequences in each string
operand as described above. This is the default behavior.
.sp
If both
.B -e
and
.B -r
are specified, the last one specified is the
one that is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I format
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Write the string arguments using the format string
.I format
and do not
append a NEWLINE. See
.BR printf (1)
for details on how to specify
format.
.sp
When the
.B -f
option is specified and there are more string operands
than format specifiers, the format string is reprocessed from the beginning.
If there are fewer string operands than format specifiers, then outputting
ends at the first unneeded format specifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not append a NEWLINE character to the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Write to the current co-process instead of standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.br
.na
.B -R
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not process \fB\e\fR sequences in each string operand as described
above.
.sp
If both
.B -e
and
.B -r
are specified, the last one specified is the
one that is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Write the output as an entry in the shell history file instead of standard
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I fd
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Write to file descriptor number
.I fd
instead of standard output. The
default value is
.BR 1 .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Output file is not open for writing.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR echo (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR printf (1),
.BR attributes (5)
