'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH projects 1 "13 May 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
projects \- print project membership of user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprojects\fR [\fB-dv\fR] [ \fIuser\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprojects\fR \fB-l\fR [\fIprojectname\fR [\fIprojectname\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B projects
command prints on standard output the projects to which
the invoking user or an optionally specified user belongs. Each user belongs
to some set of projects specified in the
.BR project (4)
file and possibly
in the associated
.B NIS
maps and
.B LDAP
databases for project
information.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints only default project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints verbose info on each project projectname. If no projectnames are
given, info on all projects is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints project descriptions along with project names.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I projectname
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Display information for the specified project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Displays project memberships for the specified user.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying Membership for a Specified User
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBprojects paul\fR
default beatles wings
example$ \fBprojects ringo\fR
default beatles
example$ \fBprojects -d paul\fR
beatles
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
A fatal error occurred during execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/project
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Local database containing valid project definitions for this machine.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The invocation is Evolving. The human-readable output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getdefaultproj (3PROJECT),
.BR getprojent (3PROJECT),
.BR project (4),
.BR attributes (5)
