'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ps 1 "16 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ps \- report process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBps\fR [\fB-aAcdefjHlLPyZ\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgrplist\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIlgrplist\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR \fInamelist\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIformat\fR].\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIproclist\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR \fIsidlist\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIterm\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuidlist\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuidlist\fR]
     [\fB-G\fR \fIgidlist\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonelist\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ps
command prints information about active processes. Without
options,
.B ps
prints information about processes that have the same
effective user
.B ID
and the same controlling terminal as the invoker.
The output contains only the process
.BR ID ,
terminal identifier,
cumulative execution time, and the command name. Otherwise, the information
that is displayed is controlled by the options.
.sp
.LP
Some options accept lists as arguments. Items in a list can be either
separated by commas or else enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or
spaces. Values for
.I proclist
and
.I grplist
must be numeric.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information about
.BR a ll
processes most frequently requested: all
those except session leaders and processes not associated with a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information for all processes. Identical to
.BR -e ,
below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints information in a format that reflects scheduler properties as
described in
.BR priocntl (1).
The
.B -c
option affects the output of
the
.B -f
and
.B -l
options, as described below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information about all processes except session leaders.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information about
.BR e "very process now running."
.sp
When the
.BR -e option
is specified, options
.BR -z ,
.BR -t ,
.BR -u ,
.BR -U ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -G ,
.BR -p ,
.BR -g ,
.B -s
and
.BR -a
options have no effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Generates a
.BR f ull
listing. (See below for significance of columns in a
full listing.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.I grplist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only process data whose group leader's
.B ID
number(s) appears in
.IR grplist .
(A group leader is a process whose process
.B ID
number is
identical to its process group
.B ID
number.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -G
.I gidlist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information for processes whose real group ID numbers are given in
.IR gidlist .
The
.I gidlist
must be a single argument in the form of a
blank- or comma-separated list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I lgrplist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only the processes homed to the specified
.IR lgrplist .
Nothing is
listed for any invalid group specified in
.IR lgrplist .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints the home lgroup of the process under an additional column header,
LGRP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints session
.B ID
and process group
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Generates a
.BR l "ong listing. (See below.)"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints information about each light weight process
.RI ( lwp )
in each
selected process. (See below.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.I namelist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the name of an alternative system
.I namelist
file in place of
the default. This option is accepted for compatibility, but is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I format
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints information according to the format specification given in
.IR format .
This is fully described in
.BR "DISPLAY FORMATS" .
Multiple
.B -o
options can be specified; the format specification is interpreted
as the space-character-separated concatenation of all the
.I format
option-arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I proclist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only process data whose process
.B ID
numbers are given in
.IR proclist .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints the number of the processor to which the process or lwp is bound, if
any, under an additional column header,
.BR PSR .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I sidlist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information on all session leaders whose
.BR ID "s appear in"
.IR sidlist .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I term
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only process data associated with
.IR term .
Terminal identifiers
are specified as a device file name, and an identifier. For example,
.BR term/a ,
or
.BR pts/0 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.I uidlist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only process data whose effective user
.B ID
number or login name
is given in
.IR uidlist .
In the listing, the numerical user
.B ID
is
printed unless you give the
.B -f
option, which prints the login name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -U
.I uidlist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists information for processes whose real user
.B ID
numbers or login
names are given in
.IR uidlist .
The
.I uidlist
must be a single
argument in the form of a blank- or comma-separated list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Under a long listing
.RB ( -l ),
omits the obsolete
.B F
and
.BR ADDR
columns and includes an
.B RSS
column to report the resident set size of
the process. Under the
.B -y
option, both
.B RSS
and
.B SZ
(see
below) is reported in units of kilobytes instead of pages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.I zonelist
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Lists only processes in the specified zones. Zones can be specified either
by name or ID. This option is only useful when executed in the global
zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Z
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prints the name of the zone with which the process is associated under an
additional column header,
.BR ZONE .
The
.B ZONE
column width is limited
to 8 characters. Use
.B "ps -eZ"
for a quick way to see information
about every process now running along with the associated zone name. Use
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ps -eo zone,uid,pid,ppid,time,comm,.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

to see zone names wider than 8 characters.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Many of the options shown are used to select processes to list. If any are
specified, the default list is ignored and
.B ps
selects the processes
represented by the inclusive OR of all the selection-criteria options.
.SH DISPLAY FORMATS
.sp
.LP
Under the
.B -f
option,
.B ps
tries to determine the command name and
arguments given when the process was created by examining the user block.
Failing this, the command name is printed, as it would have appeared without
the
.B -f
option, in square brackets.
.sp
.LP
The column headings and the meaning of the columns in a
.B ps
listing
are given below; the letters
.B f
and
.B l
indicate the option
.RB (f ull " or " l ong,
respectively) that causes the corresponding
heading to appear;
.B all
means that the heading always appears.
.B Note:
These two options determine only what information is provided
for a process; they do not determine which processes are listed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR F (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Flags (hexadecimal and additive) associated with the process. These flags
are available for historical purposes; no meaning should be currently
ascribed to them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR S " (l)"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The state of the process:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B O
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Process is running on a processor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B S
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Sleeping: process is waiting for an event to complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B R
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Runnable: process is on run queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Process is stopped, either by a job control signal or because it is being
traced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B W
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Waiting: process is waiting for CPU usage to drop to the CPU-caps enforced
limits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Z
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Zombie state: process terminated and parent not waiting.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UID
(f,l)\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The effective user
.B ID
number of the process (the login name is
printed under the
.B -f
option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR PID (all)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the process (this datum is necessary in order to
kill a process).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR PPID (f,l)\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The process
.B ID
of the parent process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR C (f,l)\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Processor utilization for scheduling (obsolete). Not printed when the
.B -c
option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CLS (f,l)\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Scheduling class. Printed only when the
.B -c
option is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR PRI (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The priority of the process. Without the
.B -c
option, higher numbers
mean lower priority. With the
.B -c
option, higher numbers mean higher
priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR NI (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.RB "Nice value, used in priority computation. Not printed when the" " -c"
option is used. Only processes in the certain scheduling classes have a nice
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR ADDR (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The memory address of the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR SZ (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The total size of the process in virtual memory, including all mapped files
and devices, in pages. See
.BR pagesize (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR WCHAN (l)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The address of an event for which the process is sleeping (if blank, the
process is running).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR STIME (f)\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The starting time of the process, given in hours, minutes, and seconds. (A
process begun more than twenty-four hours before the
.B ps
inquiry is
executed is given in months and days.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR TTY (all)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The controlling terminal for the process (the message,
.BR ? ,
is printed
when there is no controlling terminal).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR TIME (all)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The cumulative execution time for the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR LTIME (all)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The execution time for the lwp being reported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR CMD (all)
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The command name (the full command name and its arguments, up to a limit of
80 characters, are printed under the
.B -f
option).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following two additional columns are printed when the
.B -j
option
is specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PGID
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The process ID of the process group leader.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SID
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The process ID of the session leader.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following two additional columns are printed when the
.B -L
option
is specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LWP
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The lwp ID of the lwp being reported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NLWP
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The number of lwps in the process (if
.B -f
is also specified).
.RE

.sp
.LP
Under the
.B -L
option, one line is printed for each lwp in the process
and the time-reporting fields
.B STIME
and
.B LTIME
show the values
for the lwp, not the process. A traditional single-threaded process contains
only one lwp.
.sp
.LP
A process that has exited and has a parent, but has not yet been waited for
by the parent, is marked
.BR <defunct> \&.
.SS "\fB-o\fR format"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -o
option allows the output format to be specified under user
control.
.sp
.LP
The format specification must be a list of names presented as a single
argument, blank- or comma-separated. Each variable has a default header. The
default header can be overridden by appending an equals sign and the new
text of the header. The rest of the characters in the argument is used as
the header text. The fields specified are written in the order specified on
the command line, and should be arranged in columns in the output. The field
widths are selected by the system to be at least as wide as the header text
(default or overridden value). If the header text is null, such as
.B -o
.I user=,
the field width is at least as wide as the default header text.
If all header text fields are null, no header line is written.
.sp
.LP
The following names are recognized in the POSIX locale:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B user
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The effective user
.B ID
of the process. This is the textual user
.BR ID ,
if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal
representation otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ruser
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The real user
.B ID
of the process. This is the textual user
.BR ID ,
if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal
representation otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B group
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The effective group
.B ID
of the process. This is the textual group
.B ID,
if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal
representation otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rgroup
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The real group
.B ID
of the process. This is the textual group
.B ID,
if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal
representation otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The decimal value of the process
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ppid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The decimal value of the parent process
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pgid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The decimal value of the process group
.BR ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pcpu
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The ratio of CPU time used recently to CPU time available in the same
period, expressed as a percentage. The meaning of ``recently'' in this
context is unspecified. The CPU time available is determined in an
unspecified manner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vsz
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The total size of the process in virtual memory, in kilobytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nice
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The decimal value of the system scheduling priority of the process. See
.BR nice (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B etime
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
In the POSIX locale, the elapsed time since the process was started, in the
form:
.sp
\fB[[\fIdd\fR-\fB]\fIhh\fR:\fB]\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.sp
where
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dd
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
is the number of days
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hh
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
is the number of hours
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mm
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
is the number of minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ss
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
is the number of seconds
.RE

The
.I dd
field is a decimal integer. The
.IR hh ,
.I mm
and
.I ss
fields is two-digit decimal integers padded on the left with
zeros.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B time
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
In the POSIX locale, the cumulative CPU time of the process in the form:
.sp
\fB[\fIdd\fR-\fB]\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR
.sp
The
.IR dd ,
.IR hh ,
.IR mm ,
and
.I ss
fields is as described in
the
.B etime
specifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tty
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The name of the controlling terminal of the process (if any) in the same
format used by the
.BR who (1)
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B comm
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The name of the command being executed (\fBargv[0]\fR value) as a string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B args
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The command with all its arguments as a string. The implementation might
truncate this value to the field width; it is implementation-dependent
whether any further truncation occurs. It is unspecified whether the string
represented is a version of the argument list as it was passed to the
command when it started, or is a version of the arguments as they might have
been modified by the application. Applications cannot depend on being able
to modify their argument list and having that modification be reflected in
the output of
.BR ps .
The Solaris implementation limits the string to 80
bytes; the string is the version of the argument list as it was passed to
the command when it started.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following names are recognized in the Solaris implementation:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B f
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Flags (hexadecimal and additive) associated with the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The state of the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Processor utilization for scheduling (obsolete).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The effective user
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ruid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The real user
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The effective group
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rgid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The real group
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B projid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The project
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B project
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The project
.B ID
of the process as a textual value if that value can be
obtained; otherwise, as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B zoneid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The zone
.B ID
number of the process as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B zone
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The zone
.B ID
of the process as a textual value if that value can be
obtained; otherwise, as a decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B sid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The process ID of the session leader.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B taskid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The task
.B ID
of the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B class
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The scheduling class of the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pri
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The priority of the process. Higher numbers mean higher priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B opri
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The obsolete priority of the process. Lower numbers mean higher priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lwp
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The decimal value of the lwp
.BR ID .
Requesting this formatting option
causes one line to be printed for each lwp in the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nlwp
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The number of lwps in the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B psr
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The number of the processor to which the process or lwp is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pset
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B ID
of the processor set to which the process or lwp is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B addr
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The memory address of the process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B osz
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The total size of the process in virtual memory, in pages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wchan
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The address of an event for which the process is sleeping (if \(mi, the
process is running).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stime
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The starting time or date of the process, printed with no blanks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rss
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The resident set size of the process, in kilobytes. The
.B rss
value
reported by
.B ps
is an estimate provided by
.BR proc (4)
that might
underestimate the actual resident set size. Users who wish to get more
accurate usage information for capacity planning should use
.BR pmap (1)
.B -x
instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pmem
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The ratio of the process's resident set size to the physical memory on the
machine, expressed as a percentage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The first 8 bytes of the base name of the process's executable file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ctid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The contract ID of the process contract the process is a member of as a
decimal integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lgrp
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The home lgroup of the process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Only
.B comm
and
.B args
are allowed to contain blank characters; all
others, including the Solaris implementation variables, are not.
.sp
.LP
The following table specifies the default header to be used in the POSIX
locale corresponding to each format specifier.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i)
cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i)
.
FormatDefaultFormatDefault
SpecifierHeaderSpecifierHeader
_
argsCOMMANDppidPPID
commCOMMANDrgroupRGROUP
etimeELAPSEDruserRUSER
groupGROUPtimeTIME
niceNIttyTT
pcpu%CPUuserUSER
pgidPGIDvszVSZ
pidPID
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following table lists the Solaris implementation format specifiers and
the default header used with each.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i)
cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i)
.
FormatDefaultFormatDefault
SpecifierHeaderSpecifierHeader
_
addrADDRprojidPROJID
cCprojectPROJECT
classCLSpsrPSR
fFrgidRGID
fnameCOMMANDrssRSS
gidGIDruidRUID
lgrpLGRPsS
lwpLWPsidSID
nlwpNLWPstimeSTIME
opriPRItaskidTASKID
oszSZuidUID
pmem%MEMwchanWCHAN
priPRIzoneZONE
ctidCTIDzoneidZONEID
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.B ps
Command
.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBps -o user,pid,ppid=MOM -o args\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
writes the following in the POSIX locale:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 USER  PID   MOM   COMMAND
helene  34    12   ps -o uid,pid,ppid=MOM -o args
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The contents of the
.B COMMAND
field need not be the same due to
possible truncation.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR ps :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B COLUMNS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Override the system-selected horizontal screen size, used to determine the
number of text columns to display.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/pts/*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/term/*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
terminal (``tty'') names searcher files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
.B UID
information supplier
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /proc/*
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
process control files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled (see USAGE)
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kill (1),
.BR lgrpinfo (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR pagesize (1),
.BR pmap (1),
.BR priocntl (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR getty (1M),
.BR proc (4),
.BR ttysrch (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR resource_controls (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Things can change while
.B ps
is running. The snapshot it gives is true
only for a split-second, and it might not be accurate by the time you see
it. Some data printed for defunct processes is irrelevant.
.sp
.LP
If no options to select processes are specified,
.B ps
reports all
processes associated with the controlling terminal. If there is no
controlling terminal, there is no report other than the header.
.sp
.LP
.B ps -ef
or
.B "ps -o"
.B stime
might not report the
actual start of a tty login session, but rather an earlier time, when a
getty was last respawned on the tty line.
.sp
.LP
.B ps
is
.BR CSI -enabled
except for login names (usernames).
