'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rcapstat 1 "16 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rcapstat \- report resource cap enforcement daemon statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrcapstat\fR [\fB-g\fR] [\fB-p | -z\fR] [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rcapstat
command reports on the projects or zones capped by
.BR rcapd (1M).
Each report contains statistics that pertain to the project or
zone and paging statistics. Paging refers to the act of relocating portions of
memory, called pages, to or from physical memory.
.B rcapd
pages out the most
infrequently used pages.
.sp
.LP
The paging statistics in the first report issued show the activity since the
daemon was started. Subsequent reports reflect the activity since the last report
was issued.
.sp
.LP
Reports are issued every
.I interval
seconds up to the quantity specified by
.IR count ,
or forever if
.I count
is not specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Global statistics. Reports the minimum memory utilization for memory cap
enforcement (see
.BR rcapadm (1M))
and reports current memory utilization as a
percentage of installed physical memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Report statistics for capped projects.  This is the default if no option is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T u\fR | \fBd\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Display a time stamp.
.sp
Specify
.B u
for a printed representation of the internal representation of
time. See
.BR time (2).
Specify
.B d
for standard date format. See
.BR date (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Report statistics for capped zones.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The following list defines the column headings in the
.B rcapstat
report and
provides information about how to interpret the report.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B id
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The project ID or zone
.B ID
of the capped project or zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B project
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The project name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B zone
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The zone name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nproc
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The number of processes in the project or zone since the last report.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B vm
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The total virtual memory size of the project or zone's processes, including all
mapped files and devices, in kilobytes
.RB ( K ),
megabytes
.RB ( M ),
or
gigabytes
.RB ( G ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rss
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The total resident set size (\fBRSS\fR) of the project or zone's processes, in
kilobytes
.RB ( K ),
megabytes
.RB ( M ),
or gigabytes
.RB ( G ).
The count does
not account for shared pages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cap
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B RSS
cap for the project or zone. See \fBrcapd\fR(1M) for information
about how to specify memory caps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B at
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The total amount of memory that
.B rcapd
attempted to page out.
.sp
Paging refers to the act of relocating portions of memory, called pages, to or
from physical memory.
.B rcapd
pages out the most infrequently used pages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B avgat
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The average amount of memory that
.B rcapd
attempted to page out during  each
sample cycle. The rate at which
.B rcapd
samples
.B RSS
can be set with
.BR rcapadm (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pg
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An estimate of the total amount of memory that
.B rcapd
successfully paged
out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B avgpg
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An estimate of the average amount of memory that
.B rcapd
successfully paged
out during each sample cycle. The rate at which
.B rcapd
samples process
\fBRSS\fR sizes can be set with \fBrcapadm\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I interval
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the reporting interval in seconds. The default interval is 5
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I count
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Specifies the number of reports to produce. By default,
.B rcapstat
reports
statistics until a termination signal is received or until the
.BR rcapd
process exits.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBrcapstat\fR to Report Cap and Project Information
.sp
.LP
Caps are defined for two projects associated with two users.
.B user1
has a
cap of 50 megabytes and
.B user2
has a cap of 10 megabytes.

.sp
.LP
The following command produces five reports at 5-second sampling intervals.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBrcapstat 5 5\fR
    id project  nproc     vm    rss   cap    at avgat    pg avgpg
112270   user1     24   123M    35M   50M   50M    0K 3312K    0K
 78194   user2      1  2368K  1856K   10M    0K    0K    0K    0K
    id project  nproc     vm    rss   cap    at avgat    pg avgpg
112270   user1     24   123M    35M   50M    0K    0K    0K    0K
 78194   user2      1  2368K  1856K   10M    0K    0K    0K    0K
    id project  nproc     vm    rss   cap    at avgat    pg avgpg
112270   user1     24   123M    35M   50M    0K    0K    0K    0K
 78194   user2      1  2368K  1928K   10M    0K    0K    0K    0K
    id project  nproc     vm    rss   cap    at avgat    pg avgpg
112270   user1     24   123M    35M   50M    0K    0K    0K    0K
 78194   user2      1  2368K  1928K   10M    0K    0K    0K    0K
    id project  nproc     vm    rss   cap    at avgat    pg avgpg
112270   user1     24   123M    35M   50M    0K    0K    0K    0K
 78194   user2      1  2368K  1928K   10M    0K    0K    0K    0K
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The first three lines of output constitute the first report, which contains the
cap and project information for the two projects and paging statistics since
\fBrcapd\fR was started. The \fBat\fR and \fBpg\fR columns are a number greater
than zero for
.B user1
and zero for
.BR user2 ,
which indicates that at some
time in the daemon's history,
.B user1
exceeded its cap but
.B user2
did
not.

.sp
.LP
The subsequent reports show no significant activity.

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Using \fBrcapstat\fR to Monitor the RSS of a Project
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrcapstat 5 5\fR
    id project  nproc    vm   rss   cap    at avgat     pg  avgpg
376565   user1     57  209M   46M   10M  440M  220M  5528K  2764K
376565   user1     57  209M   44M   10M  394M  131M  4912K  1637K
376565   user1     56  207M   43M   10M  440M  147M  6048K  2016K
376565   user1     56  207M   42M   10M  522M  174M  4368K  1456K
376565   user1     56  207M   44M   10M  482M  161M  3376K  1125K
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The project
.B user1
has an
.B RSS
in excess of its physical memory cap.
The nonzero values in the
.B pg
column indicate that
.B rcapd
is
consistently paging out memory as it attempts to meet the cap by lowering the
physical memory utilization of the project's processes. However,
.B rcapd
is
unsuccessful, as indicated by the varying
.B rss
values that do not show a
corresponding decrease. This means that the application's resident memory is
being actively used, forcing
.B rcapd
to affect the working set. Under this
condition, the system continues to experience high page fault rates, and
associated I/O, until the working set size (\fBWSS\fR) is reduced, the cap is
raised, or the application changes its memory access pattern. Notice that a page
fault occurs when either a new page must be created, or the system must copy in a
page from the swap device.

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Determining the Working Set Size of a Project
.sp
.LP
This example is a continuation of
.BR "Example 1" ,
and it uses the same
project.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrcapstat 5 5\fR
    id project  nproc    vm   rss   cap    at avgat     pg  avgpg
376565   user1     56  207M   44M   10M  381M  191M    15M  7924K
376565   user1     56  207M   46M   10M  479M  160M  2696K   898K
376565   user1     56  207M   46M   10M  424M  141M  7280K  2426K
376565   user1     56  207M   43M   10M  401M  201M  4808K  2404K
376565   user1     56  207M   43M   10M  456M  152M  4800K  1600K
376565   user1     56  207M   44M   10M  486M  162M  4064K  1354K
376565   user1     56  207M   52M  100M  191M   95M  1944K   972K
376565   user1     56  207M   55M  100M    0K    0K     0K     0K
376565   user1     56  207M   56M  100M    0K    0K     0K     0K
376565   user1     56  207M   56M  100M    0K    0K     0K     0K
376565   user1     56  207M   56M  100M    0K    0K     0K     0K
376565   user1     56  207M   56M  100M    0K    0K     0K     0K
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
By inhibiting cap enforcement, either by raising the cap of a project or by
changing the minimum physical  memory utilization for cap enforcement (see
.BR rcapadm (1M)),
.RB "the resident set can become the working set. The" " rss"
column might stabilize to show the project
.BR WSS ,
as shown in the previous
example. The
.B WSS
is the minimum cap value that allows the project's
processes to operate without perpetually incurring page faults.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command-line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcapu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rcapadm (1M),
.BR rcapd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIPhysical Memory Control Using the Resource Capping Daemon\fR in \fISystem
Administration Guide: Resource Management\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the interval specified to
.B rcapstat
is shorter than the reporting
interval specified to
.B rcapd
(with \fBrcapadm\fR(1M)), the output for some
intervals can be zero. This is because
.B rcapd
does not update statistics
more frequently than the interval specified with
.BR rcapadm ,
and this interval
is independent of (and less precise than) the sampling interval used by
.BR rcapstat .
