'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH refer 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
refer \- expand and insert references from a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrefer\fR [\fB-ben\fR] [\fB-a\fIr\fR] [\fB-c\fIstring\fR] [\fB-k\fIx\fR] [\fB-l\fIm,n\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIfilename\fR]
     [\fB-s\fIkeys\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B refer
is a preprocessor for
.BR nroff (1),
or
.BR troff (1),
that
finds and formats references. The input files (standard input by default)
are copied to the standard output, except for lines between `\fB\&.\|[\fR'
and `\fB\&.\|]\fR' command lines, Such lines are assumed to contain keywords
as for
.BR lookbib (1),
and are replaced by information from a
bibliographic data base.  The user can avoid the search, override fields
from it, or add new fields. The reference data, from whatever source, is
assigned to a set of
.B troff
strings.  Macro packages such as
.BR ms (5)
print the finished reference text from these strings.  A flag is
placed in the text at the point of reference. By default, the references are
indicated by numbers.
.sp
.LP
When
.B refer
is used with
.BR eqn (1),
.BR neqn ,
or
.BR tbl (1),
.B refer
should be used first in the sequence, to minimize the volume of
data passed through pipes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Bare mode \(em do not put any flags in text (neither numbers or labels).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Accumulate references instead of leaving the references where encountered,
until a sequence of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\&.[
$LIST$
\&.]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

is encountered, and then write out all references collected so far.
Collapse references to the same source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Do not search the default file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fIr\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reverse the first
.I r
author names (Jones, J. A. instead of J. A.
Jones). If
.I r
is omitted, all author names are reversed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fIstring\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Capitalize (with SMALL CAPS) the fields whose key-letters are in
.IR string .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fIx\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Instead of numbering references, use labels as specified in a reference
data line beginning with the characters
.IR %x ;
By default,
.I x
is
.BR L .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fIm,n\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Instead of numbering references, use labels from the senior author's last
name and the year of publication.  Only the first
.I m
letters of the
last name and the last
.I n
digits of the date are used.  If either of
.I m
or
.I n
is omitted, the entire name or date, respectively, is
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fI filename\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Take the next argument as a file of references to be searched.  The default
file is searched last.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fIkeys\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Sort references by fields whose key-letters are in the
.I keys
string,
and permute reference numbers in the text accordingly. Using this option
implies the
.B -e
option. The key-letters in
.I keys
may be followed
by a number indicating how many such fields are used, with a
.B +
sign
taken as a very large number.  The default is
.B AD,
which
sorts on the senior author and date. To sort on all authors and then the
date, for instance, use the options `\fB-sA+T\fR'.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/refer
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
directory of programs
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/refer/papers
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
directory of default publication lists and indexes
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addbib (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
