'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH regcmp 1 "Dec 20 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
regcmp \- regular expression compile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBregcmp\fR [\fB-\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B regcmp
command performs a function similar to
.B regcmp
and,
in most cases, precludes the need for calling
.B regcmp
from C programs.
Bypassing
.B regcmp
saves on both execution time and program size. The
command
.B regcmp
compiles the regular expressions in
.I filename
and
places the output in
.IB filename \&.i\c
\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
If the
.B \(mi
option is used, the output is placed in
\fIfilename\fB\&.c\fR. The format of entries in
.I filename
is a name
(C variable) followed by one or more blanks followed by one or more regular
expressions enclosed in double quotes. The output of
.B regcmp
is C
source code. Compiled regular expressions are represented as \fBextern char\fR vectors. \fIfilename\fB\&.i\fR files may thus be \fB#include\fRd
in C programs, or \fIfilename\fB\&.c\fR files may be compiled and later
loaded. In the C program that uses the
.B regcmp
output,
.B regex(abc,line)
applies the regular expression named
.B abc
to
.BR line .
Diagnostics are self-explanatory.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of the
.B regcmp
command.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B name
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
\fB"([A\(miZa\(miz][A\(miZa\(miz0\(mi9_]*)$0"\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B telno
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
\fB"\|\e({0,1}([2\(mi9][01][1\(mi9])$0\e){0,1} *"\fR
.sp
\fB"([2\(mi9][0\(mi9]{2})$1[ \(mi]{0,1}"\fR
.sp
\fB"([0\(mi9]{4})$2"\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
The three arguments to
.B telno
shown above must all be entered on one
line.

.sp
.LP
In the C program that uses the
.B regcmp
output,

.sp
.in +2
.nf
     regex(telno, line, area, exch, rest)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
applies the regular expression named
.B telno
to
.BR line .

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
A general description of the usage of the
.B LC_*
environmental
variables can be found in
.BR environ (5).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_CTYPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Determines how
.B regcmp
handles characters. When
.B LC_CTYPE
is set
to a valid value,
.B regcmp
can display and handle text and filenames
containing valid characters for that locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_MESSAGES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Determines how diagnostic and informative messages are presented. This
includes the language and style of the messages, and the correct form of
affirmative and negative responses.  In the "C" locale, the messages are
presented in the default form found in the program itself (in most cases,
U.S. English).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtoo
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR regcmp (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
