'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH renice 1 "9 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
renice \- alter priority of running processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrenice\fR [\fB-n\fR \fIincrement\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIidtype\fR] \fIID\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrenice\fR [\fB-n\fR \fIincrement\fR] [\fB-g\fR | \fB-p\fR | \fB-u\fR] \fIID\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrenice\fR \fIpriority\fR [\fB-p\fR] \fIpid\fR.\|.\|. [\fB-g\fR \fIgid\fR].\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR].\|.\|.
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrenice\fR \fIpriority\fR \fB-g\fR \fIgid\fR.\|.\|. [\fB-g\fR \fIgid\fR].\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR].\|.\|.
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrenice\fR \fIpriority\fR \fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR.\|.\|. [\fB-g\fR \fIgid\fR].\|.\|. [\fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR].\|.\|.
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B renice
command alters the scheduling priority of one or more
running processes. By default, the processes to be affected are specified by
their process
.BR ID s.
.sp
.LP
If the first operand is a number within the valid range of priorities
(\fB\(mi20\fR to
.BR 20 ),
\fBrenice\fR will treat it as a \fIpriority\fR
(as in all but the first synopsis form). Otherwise,
.B renice
will treat
it as an
.I ID
(as in the first synopsis form).
.SS "Altering Process Priority"
.sp
.LP
Users other than the privileged user may only alter the priority of
processes they own, and can only monotonically increase their "nice value"
within the range
.B 0
to
.BR 19 .
This prevents overriding
administrative fiats. The privileged user may alter the priority of any
process and set the priority to any value in the range \fB\(mi20\fR to
.BR 19 .
Useful priorities are:
.B 19
(the affected processes will run
only when nothing else in the system wants to); \fB0\fR (the "base"
scheduling priority),; and any negative value (to make things go very fast).
\fB20\fR is an acceptable nice value, but will be rounded down to
.BR 19 .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
\fBrenice\fR supports the following option features:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The first operand,
.IR priority ,
must precede the options and can have
the appearance of a multi-digit option.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.BR -g ,
.BR -p ,
and
.B -u
options can each take multiple
option-arguments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.I pid
option-argument can be used without its
.B -p
option.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.B -i
option can be used to specify the
.I ID
type for the
\fBID\fR list. This is preferred in specifying \fIID\fR type over the use of
the
.B -g
|
.B -p
|
.B -u
syntax, which is now obsolete. See
NOTES.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Interprets all operands or just the
.I gid
arguments as unsigned decimal
integer process group IDs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This option, together with the
.I ID
list arguments, specifies a class
of processes to which the
.B renice
command is to apply. The
interpretation of the
.B ID
list depends on the value of
.IR idtype .
The valid
.I idtype
arguments are:
.BR pid ,
.BR pgid ,
.BR uid ,
.BR gid ,
.BR sid ,
.BR taskid ,
.BR projid ,
and
.BR zoneid .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR \fIincrement\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies how the system scheduling priority of the specified process or
processes is to be adjusted. The
.I increment
option-argument is a
positive or negative decimal integer that will be used to modify the system
scheduling priority of the specified process or processes. Positive
\fIincrement\fR values cause a lower system scheduling priority. Negative
\fIincrement\fR values may require appropriate privileges and will cause a
higher system scheduling priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Interprets all operands or just the
.I pid
arguments as unsigned decimal
integer process \fBID\fRs. The \fB-p\fR option is the default if no options
are specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Interprets all operands or just the
.I user
argument as users. If a user
exists with a user name equal to the operand, then the user
.B ID
of that
user will be used in further processing. Otherwise, if the operand
represents an unsigned decimal integer, it will be used as the numeric user
\fBID\fR of the user.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ID
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A process
.BR ID ,
process group
.BR ID ,
or user name/user \fBID\fR,
depending on the option selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I priority
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The value specified is taken as the actual system scheduling priority,
rather than as an increment to the existing system scheduling priority.
Specifying a scheduling priority higher than that of the existing process
may require appropriate privileges.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Adjusting the scheduling priority of process IDs
.sp
.LP
Adjust the system scheduling priority so that process \fBID\fRs \fB987\fR
and
.B 32
would have a lower scheduling priority:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrenice -n 5 -p 987 32\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Adjusting the scheduling priority of group IDs
.sp
.LP
Adjust the system scheduling priority so that group
.BR ID s
.B 324
and
\fB76\fR would have a higher scheduling priority, if the user has the
appropriate privileges to do so:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrenice -n -4 -g 324 76\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Adjusting the scheduling priority of a user ID and user
name
.sp
.LP
Adjust the system scheduling priority so that numeric user ID
.B 8
and
user
.B sas
would have a lower scheduling priority:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrenice -n 4 -u 8 sas\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR renice :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
map user names to user
.BR ID s
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nice (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR priocntl (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B renice
syntax
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBrenice [-n \fIincrement\fR] [-i \fIidtype\fR] \fIID\fR .\|.\|.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
is preferred over the old syntax
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBrenice [-n \fIincrement\fR] [-g | -p| -u] \fIID\fR .\|.\|.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
which is now obsolete.
.sp
.LP
If you make the priority very negative, then the process cannot be
interrupted.
.sp
.LP
To regain control you must make the priority greater than
.BR 0 .
.sp
.LP
Users other than the privileged user cannot increase scheduling priorities
of their own processes, even if they were the ones that decreased the
priorities in the first place.
.sp
.LP
The
.B priocntl
command subsumes the function of
.BR renice .
