'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rm 1 "20 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rm, rmdir \- remove directory entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/rm\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-i\fR] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/rm\fR \fB-rR\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-i\fR] \fIdirname\fR.\|.\|. [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/rm\fR [\fB-fiRr\fR] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/rmdir\fR [\fB-ps\fR] \fIdirname\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/rmdir\fR [\fB-eps\fR] \fIdirname\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/rm /usr/xpg4/bin/rm"
.sp
.LP
The
.B rm
utility removes the directory entry specified by each
.I file
argument. If a file has no write permission and the standard
input is a terminal, the full set of permissions (in octal) for the file are
printed followed by a question mark. This is a prompt for confirmation. If
the answer is affirmative, the file is deleted, otherwise the file
remains.
.sp
.LP
If
.I file
is a symbolic link, the link is removed, but the file or
directory to which it refers is not deleted. Users do not need write
permission to remove a symbolic link, provided they have write permissions
in the directory.
.sp
.LP
If multiple
.IR file s
are specified and removal of a
.I file
fails for
any reason,
.B rm
writes a diagnostic message to standard error, do
nothing more to the current
.IR file ,
and go on to any remaining
.IR file s.
.sp
.LP
If the standard input is not a terminal, the utility operates as if the
.B -f
option is in effect.
.SS "/usr/bin/rmdir"
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmdir
utility removes the directory entry specified by each
.I dirname
operand, which must refer to an empty directory.
.sp
.LP
Directories are processed in the order specified. If a directory and a
subdirectory of that directory are specified in a single invocation of
.BR rmdir ,
the subdirectory must be specified before the parent directory
so that the parent directory is empty when
.B rmdir
tries to remove it.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmdir
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.BR /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
paths. It is invoked when
.B rmdir
is executed without
a pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/rmdir
or
.B /usr/bin/rmdir
executable.
.sp
.LP
.B rmdir
deletes each given directory. The directory must be empty and
contain no entries other than
.B \&.
or
.BR \&.. .
If a directory and a
subdirectory of that directory are specified as operands, the subdirectory
must be specified before the parent, so that the parent directory is empty
when
.B rmdir
attempts to remove it.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/bin/rm
and
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/rm :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Recursively removes directories and subdirectories in the argument list.
The directory is emptied of files and removed. The user is normally prompted
for removal of any write-protected files which the directory contains. The
write-protected files are removed without prompting, however, if the
.B -f
option is used, or if the standard input is not a terminal and the
.B -i
option is not used.
.sp
Symbolic links that are encountered with this option is not traversed.
.sp
If the removal of a non-empty, write-protected directory is attempted, the
utility always fails (even if the
.B -f
option is used), resulting in an
error message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Same as
.B -r
option.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/rm"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/bin/rm
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Removes all files (whether write-protected or not) in a directory without
prompting the user. In a write-protected directory, however, files are never
removed (whatever their permissions are), but no messages are displayed. If
the removal of a write-protected directory is attempted, this option does
not suppress an error message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Interactive. With this option,
.B rm
prompts for confirmation before
removing any files. It overrides the
.B -f
option and remains in effect
even if the standard input is not a terminal.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/rm"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/rm
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Does not prompt for confirmation. Does not write diagnostic messages or
modify the exit status in the case of non-existent operands. Any previous
occurrences of the
.B -i
option is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prompts for confirmation. Any occurrences of the
.B -f
option is
ignored.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/rmdir"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B /usr/bin/rmdir
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Allows users to remove the directory
.I dirname
and its parent
directories which become empty. A message is printed to standard error if
all or part of the path could not be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Suppresses the message printed on the standard error when
.B -p
is in
effect.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for the
.B rmdir
built-in for
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.br
.na
.B --ignore-fail-on-non-empty
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Ignore each non-empty directory failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.br
.na
.B --parents
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Remove each explicit directory argument directory that becomes empty after
its child directories are removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
.B --suppress
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Suppress the message printed on the standard error when
.B -p
is in
effect.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Specifies the pathname of a directory entry to be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dirname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Specifies the pathname of an empty directory to be removed.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B rm
and
.B rmdir
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31
bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following examples are valid for the commands shown.
.SS "/usr/bin/rm, /usr/xpg4/bin/rm"
.LP
.B Example 1
Removing Directories
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the directory entries
.B a.out
and
.BR core :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrm a.out core\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Removing a Directory without Prompting
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the directory
.B junk
and all its
contents, without prompting:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrm -rf junk\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "/usr/bin/rmdir"
.LP
.B Example 3
Removing Empty Directories
.sp
.LP
If a directory
.B a
in the current directory is empty, except that it
contains a directory
.BR b ,
and
.B a/b
is empty except that it contains
a directory
.BR c ,
the following command removes all three directories:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrmdir -p a/b/c\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.B rm
and
.BR rmdir :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.LP
Affirmative responses are processed using the extended regular expression
defined for the
.B yesexpr
keyword in the
.B LC_MESSAGES
category of
the user's locale. The locale specified in the
.B LC_COLLATE
category
defines the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character
collating elements used in the expression defined for
.BR yesexpr .
The
locale specified in
.B LC_CTYPE
determines the locale for interpretation
of sequences of bytes of text data a characters, the behavior of character
classes used in the expression defined for the
.BR yesexpr .
See
.BR locale (5).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the
.B -f
option was not specified, all the named directory entries
were removed; otherwise, all the existing named directory entries were
removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion. All directories deleted successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred. One or more directories could not be deleted.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/rm, /usr/bin/rmdir"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/rm"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
All messages are generally self-explanatory.
.sp
.LP
It is forbidden to remove the files "\fB\&.\fR" and "\fB\&..\fR" in order
to avoid the consequences of inadvertently doing something like the
following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrm -r .*\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
It is forbidden to remove the file "\fB/\fR" in order to avoid the
consequences of inadvertently doing something like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrm -rf $x/$y\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrm -rf /$y\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
when
.B $x
and
.B $y
expand to empty strings.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
A
.B \(mi
permits the user to mark explicitly the end of any command
line options, allowing
.B rm
to recognize file arguments that begin with
a \fB\(mi\fR\&. As an aid to BSD migration,
.B rm
accepts
\fB\(mi\|\(mi\fR as a synonym for \fB\(mi\fR\&. This migration aid may
disappear in a future release. If a \fB\(mi\|\(mi\fR and a \fB\(mi\fR both
appear on the same command line, the second is interpreted as a file.
