'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rmmount 1 "18 Sep 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rmmount, rmumount \- mounts and unmounts removable media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrmmount\fR  [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR] [\fInickname\fR | \fIdevice\fR] [\fImount_point\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmmount\fR  [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmumount\fR  [\fInickname\fR | \fImount_point\fR | \fIdevice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmumount\fR  [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmmount
and
.B rmumount
utilities mount and unmount removable
or hot-pluggable volumes. The optional argument can identify the volume by
its volume label, mount point or block device path.
.sp
.LP
.B rmmount
can also take additional mount options if the user has
sufficient privileges to override the default mount options.
.sp
.LP
Unmounting removable media does not result in its ejection. Use
.BR eject (1)
to optionally unmount and eject the media.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B rmmount
and
.BR rmumount :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the device path of the default device. This device is used if no
arguments are supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display the paths and nicknames of mountable devices.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for
.B rmmount
only:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I options
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Display mount options. This option can only be used by users that have
privileges to override the system default options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Unmounts the volume as opposed to mounting it.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I device
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by the name it appears in the
directory
.BR /dev .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mount_point
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by the name it appears in the
directory
.BR /dev .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nickname
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by its nickname as known to
this command.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Mounting a USB disk
.sp
.LP
The following example mounts a USB disk with a volume label of
.BR PHOTOS :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rmmount PHOTOS
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Unmounting a
.B pcfs
Volume
.sp
.LP
The following example unmounts a
.B pcfs
volume by device path:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rmumount /dev/dsk/c4t0d0p0:1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /media
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Default mount root.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrmvolmgr
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR eject (1),
.BR attributes (5)
