'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH roffbib 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
roffbib \- format and print a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBroffbib\fR [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-n\fIp\fR] [\fB-o\fIlist\fR] [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-r\fIaN\fR]
     [\fB-s\fIN\fR] [\fB-T\fIterm\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fIfilename\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B roffbib
prints out all records in a bibliographic database, in
bibliography format rather than as footnotes or endnotes. Generally it is
used in conjunction with
.BR sortbib (1):
.sp
.LP
.B "example% sortbib"
.B "database |"
.B roffbib
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
.B roffbib
accepts all options understood by
.BR nroff (1)
except
.B -i
and
.BR -q .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted lines using full terminal
resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and reduce output
character count.
.B TAB
settings are assumed to be every 8 nominal
character widths.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " filename"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Prepend the macro file
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.name
to the input
files. There should be a space between the
.B -m
and the macro filename.
This set of macros will replace the ones defined in
.BR /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -n p
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Number first generated page
.IR p .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o list
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print only page numbers that appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of
numbers and ranges. A range \fIN\fB\(mi\fIM\fR means pages \fIN\fR
through
.IR M ;
an initial \fB-\fIN\fR means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
a final \fIN\fB\(mi\fR means from page
.I N
to end.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -Q
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Queue output for the phototypesetter.  Page offset is set to 1 inch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r aN
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
The command-line argument
.B -rN1
will number the references starting at 1.
.sp
Four command-line registers control formatting style of the bibliography,
much like the number registers of
.BR ms (5).
The flag
.B -rV2
will
double space the bibliography, while
.B -rV1
will double space references
but single space annotation paragraphs. The line length can be changed from
the default 6.5 inches to 6 inches with the
.B -rL6i
argument, and the
page offset can be set from the default of 0 to one inch by specifying
.B -rO1i
(capital O, not zero).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s N
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Halt prior to every
.I N
pages for paper loading or changing (default
\fIN\fR\|=1). To resume, enter
.B NEWLINE
or \fBRETURN.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -T term
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify
.I term
as the terminal type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Send output to the Versatec.  Page offset is set to 1 inch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
If abstracts or comments are entered following the
.B %X
field key,
.B roffbib
will format them into paragraphs for an annotated
bibliography. Several
.B %X
fields may be given if several annotation
paragraphs are desired.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file of macros used by
.B nroff/troff
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addbib (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR nroff (1)
.BR refer (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Users have to rewrite macros to create customized formats.
