'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpm2cpio 1 "20 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rpm2cpio \- convert Red Hat Package (RPM) to cpio archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrpm2cpio\fR [\fIfile\fR.rpm]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rpm2cpio
utility converts the \fB\&.rpm\fR file specified as its
sole argument to a
.B cpio
archive on standard output. (See NOTES.) If no
argument is given, an rpm stream is read from standard input. In both cases,
.B rpm2cpio
will fail and print a usage message if the standard output is
a terminal. Therefore, the output is usually redirected to a file or piped
through the
.BR cpio (1)
utility.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Converting an rpm file
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpm2cpio Device3Dfx-1.1-2.src.rpm | cpio -itv\fR
CPIO archive found!
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  2635 Sep 13 16:39 1998, 3dfx.gif
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root 11339 Sep 27 16:03 1998, Dev3Dfx.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  1387 Sep 27 16:04 1998, Device3Dfx-1.1-2.spec
31 blocks
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Converting from standard input
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpm2cpio < Device3Dfx-1.1-2.src.rpm | cpio -itv\fR
CPIO archive found!
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  2635 Sep 13 16:39 1998, 3dfx.gif
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root 11339 Sep 27 16:03 1998, Dev3Dfx.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  1387 Sep 27 16:04 1998, Device3Dfx-1.1-2.spec
31 blocks
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrpm
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cpio (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B rpm2cpio
handles versions 3 and 4
.BR RPM s.
