'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsh 1 "23 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rsh, remsh, remote_shell \- remote shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrsh\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR]
     [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] \fIhostname\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrsh\fR \fIhostname\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBremsh\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR]
     [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] \fIhostname\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBremsh\fR \fIhostname\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
 \fIhostname\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsh
utility connects to the specified
.I hostname
and executes
the specified
.IR command .
.B rsh
copies its standard input to the
remote command, the standard output of the remote command to its standard
output, and the standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit, and terminate signals are propagated to the remote command.
.B rsh
normally terminates when the remote command does.
.sp
.LP
The user can opt for a secure session of
.B rsh
which uses Kerberos V5
for authentication. Encryption of the network session traffic is also
possible. The
.B rsh
session can be kerberized using any of the following
Kerberos specific options:
.BR -a ,
.B -PN
or
.BR -PO ,
.BR -x ,
.B -f
or
.BR -F ,
and
.BR -k
.IR realm .
Some of these options
(\fB-a\fR,
.BR -x ,
.B -PN
or
.BR -PO ,
and
.B -f
or
.BR -F )
can
also be specified in the
.B [appdefaults]
section of
.BR krb5.conf (4).
The usage of these options and the expected behavior is discussed in the
OPTIONS section below. If Kerberos authentication is used, authorization to
the account is controlled by rules in
.BR krb5_auth_rules (5).
If this
authorization fails, fallback to normal
.B rsh
using
.B rhosts
occurs
only if the
.B -PO
option is used explicitly on the command line or is
specified in
.BR krb5.conf (4).
Also, the
.B -PN
or
.BR -PO ,
.BR -x ,
.B -f
or
.BR -F ,
and
.B -k
.I realm
options are just supersets of
the
.B -a
option.
.sp
.LP
If you omit
.IR command ,
instead of executing a single command, \fBrsh\fR
logs you in on the remote host using
.BR rlogin (1).
.sp
.LP
.B rsh
does not return the exit status code of
.IR command .
.sp
.LP
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted on the local
machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on the remote machine.
See EXAMPLES.
.sp
.LP
If there is no locale setting in the initialization file of the login shell
(\fB\&.cshrc\fR, . . .) for a particular user, \fBrsh\fR always executes the
command in the "C" locale instead of using the default locale of the remote
machine.
.sp
.LP
The command is sent unencrypted to the remote system. All subsequent
network session traffic is encrypted. See
.BR -x .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Explicitly enable Kerberos authentication and trusts the \fB\&.k5login\fR
file for access-control. If the authorization check by
.BR in.rshd (1M)
on
the server-side succeeds and if the \fB\&.k5login\fR file permits access,
the user is allowed to carry out the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Forward a copy of the local credentials (Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket)
to the remote system. This is a non-forwardable ticket granting ticket.
Forward a ticket granting ticket if you need to authenticate yourself to
other Kerberized network services on the remote host. An example would be if
your home directory on the remote host is
.B NFS
mounted by way of
Kerberos V5. If your local credentials are not forwarded in this case, you
cannot access your home directory. This option is mutually exclusive with
the
.B -F
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Forward a forwardable copy of the local credentials (Kerberos Ticket
Granting Ticket) to the remote system. The
.B -F
option provides a
superset of the functionality offered by the
.B -f
option. For example,
with the
.B -f
option, if, after you connected to the remote host, your
remote command attempted to invoke
.BR /usr/bin/ftp ,
.BR /usr/bin/telnet ,
.BR /usr/bin/rlogin ,
or
.BR /usr/bin/rsh ,
with
the \fB-f\fR or \fB-F\fR options, the attempt would fail. Thus, you would be
unable to push your single network sign on trust beyond one system. This
option is mutually exclusive with the
.B -f
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.I realm
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Causes
.B rsh
to obtain tickets for the remote host in
.IR realm
instead of the remote host's realm as determined by
.BR krb5.conf (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -K
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This option explicitly disables Kerberos authentication. It can be used to
override the
.B autologin
variable in
.BR krb5.conf (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I username
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Uses
.I username
as the remote username instead of your local username.
In the absence of this option, the remote username is the same as your local
username.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Redirect the input of
.B rsh
to
.BR /dev/null .
You sometimes need this
option to avoid unfortunate interactions between
.B rsh
and the shell
which invokes it. For example, if you are running
.B rsh
and invoke a
.B rsh
in the background without redirecting its input away from the
terminal, it blocks even if no reads are posted by the remote command. The
.B -n
option prevents this.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -PO
.ad
.br
.na
.B -PN
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Explicitly request new (\fB-PN\fR) or old (\fB-PO\fR) version of the
Kerberos "\fBrcmd\fR" protocol. The new protocol avoids many security
problems prevalant in the old one and is regarded much more secure, but is
not interoperable with older (MIT/SEAM) servers. The new protocol is used by
default, unless explicitly specified using these options or through
.BR krb5.conf (4).
If Kerberos authorization fails when using the old
"\fBrcmd\fR" protocol, there is fallback to regular, non-kerberized
\fBrsh\fR. This is not the case when the new, more secure "\fBrcmd\fR"
protocol is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Cause the network session traffic to be encrypted. See
.BR DESCRIPTION .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The type of remote shell (\fBsh\fR,
.BR rsh ,
or other) is determined by
the user's entry in the file
.B /etc/passwd
on the remote system.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I command
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The command to be executed on the specified
.IR hostname .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B rsh
and
.B remsh
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31
bytes).
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsh
and
.B remsh
commands are IPv6-enabled. See
.BR ip6 (7P).
.B IPv6
is not currently supported with Kerberos V5 authentication.
.sp
.LP
Hostnames are given in the
.I hosts
database, which can be contained in
the
.B /etc/hosts
file, the Internet domain name database, or both. Each
host has one official name (the first name in the database entry) and
optionally one or more nicknames. Official hostnames or nicknames can be
given as
.IR hostname .
.sp
.LP
If the name of the file from which
.B rsh
is executed is anything other
than
.BR rsh ,
.B rsh
takes this name as its
.I hostname
argument.
This allows you to create a symbolic link to
.B rsh
in the name of a host
which, when executed, invokes a remote shell on that host. By creating a
directory and populating it with symbolic links in the names of commonly
used hosts, then including the directory in your shell's search path, you
can run
.B rsh
by typing
.I hostname
to your shell.
.sp
.LP
If
.B rsh
is invoked with the basename
.BR remsh ,
.B rsh
checks for
the existence of the file
.BR /usr/bin/remsh .
If this file exists,
.B rsh
behaves as if
.B remsh
is an alias for
.BR rsh .
If
.B /usr/bin/remsh
does not exist,
.B rsh
behaves as if
.B remsh
is
a host name.
.sp
.LP
For the kerberized
.B rsh
session, each user can have a private
authorization list in a file \fB\&.k5login\fR in their home directory. Each
line in this file should contain a Kerberos principal name of the form
\fIprincipal\fR/\fIinstance\fR@\fIrealm\fR. If there is a \fB~/.k5login\fR
file, then access is granted to the account if and only if the originater
user is authenticated to one of the principals named in the
.BR ~/.k5login
file. Otherwise, the originating user is granted access to the account if
and only if the authenticated principal name of the user can be mapped to
the local account name using the
.I authenticated-principal-name
\(->
.I local-user-name
mapping rules. The \fB\&.k5login\fR file (for access
control) comes into play only when Kerberos authentication is being done.
.sp
.LP
For the non-secure
.B rsh
session, each remote machine can have a file
named
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
containing a list of trusted hostnames with
which it shares usernames. Users with the same username on both the local
and remote machine can run
.B rsh
from the machines listed in the remote
machine's
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file. Individual users can set up a similar
private equivalence list with the file .rhosts in their home directories.
Each line in this file contains two names: a hostname and a username
separated by a space. The entry permits the user named username who is
logged into hostname to use rsh to access the remote machine as the remote
user. If the name of the local host is not found in the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file on the remote machine, and the local username
and hostname are not found in the remote user's \fB\&.rhosts\fR file, then
the access is denied. The hostnames listed in the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
\fB\&.rhosts\fR files must be the official hostnames listed in the
.B hosts
database; nicknames can not be used in either of these files.
.sp
.LP
You cannot log in using
.B rsh
as a trusted user from a trusted hostname
if the trusted user account is locked.
.sp
.LP
.B rsh
does not prompt for a password if access is denied on the remote
machine unless the
.I command
argument is omitted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using rsh to Append Files
.sp
.LP
The following command appends the remote file
.B lizard.file
from the
machine called
.B lizard
to the file called
.B example.file
on the
machine called
.BR example :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrsh lizard cat lizard.file >> example.file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command appends the file
.B lizard.file
on the machine
called
.B lizard
to the file
.B lizard.file2
which also resides on the
machine called
.BR lizard :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrsh lizard cat lizard.file ">>" lizard.file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Internet host table
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Trusted remote hosts and users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
System password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.k5login
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
File containing Kerberos principals that are allowed access
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/krb5/krb5.conf
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Kerberos configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR on (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR telnet (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR in.rshd (1M),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR hosts.equiv (4),
.BR krb5.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR krb5_auth_rules (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR ip6 (7P)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When a system is listed in
.BR hosts.equiv ,
its security must be as good
as local security. One insecure system listed in
.B hosts.equiv
can
compromise the security of the entire system.
.sp
.LP
You cannot run an interactive command (such as
.BR vi (1)).
Use
.B rlogin
if you wish to do this.
.sp
.LP
Stop signals stop the local
.B rsh
process only. This is arguably wrong,
but currently hard to fix for reasons too complicated to explain here.
.sp
.LP
The current local environment is not passed to the remote shell.
.sp
.LP
Sometimes the
.B -n
option is needed for reasons that are less than
obvious. For example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrsh somehost dd if=/dev/nrmt0 bs=20b | tar xvpBf \(mi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
puts your shell into a strange state. Evidently, the
.B tar
process
terminates before the
.B rsh
process. The
.B rsh
command then tries to
write into the ``broken pipe'' and, instead of terminating neatly, proceeds
to compete with your shell for its standard input. Invoking
.B rsh
with
the
.B -n
option avoids such incidents.
.sp
.LP
This bug occurs only when
.B rsh
is at the beginning of a pipeline and
is not reading standard input. Do not use the
.B -n
option if
.BR rsh
actually needs to read standard input. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtar cf \(mi . | rsh sundial dd of=/dev/rmt0 obs=20b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
does not produce the bug. If you were to use the
.B -n
option in a case
like this,
.B rsh
would incorrectly read from
.B /dev/null
instead of
from the pipe.
.sp
.LP
For most purposes,
.BR ssh (1)
is preferred over
.BR rsh .
