'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ruptime 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ruptime \- show host status of local machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBruptime\fR [\fB-ar\fR] [\fB-l\fR | \fB-t\fR | \fB-u\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ruptime
utility gives a status line like
.B uptime
(see
.BR uptime (1))
for each machine on the local network; these are formed
from packets broadcast by each host on the network approximately every three
minutes.
.sp
.LP
Machines for which no status report has been received for 11 minutes are
shown as being down.
.sp
.LP
Normally, the listing is sorted by host name, but this order can be changed
by specifying one of the options listed below.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Counts even those users who have been idle for an hour or more.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Reverses the sorting order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
|
.B -t
|
.B -u
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
These options are mutually exclusive. The use of one overrides the previous
one(s).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sorts the display by load average.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sorts the display by up time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sorts the display by number of users.
.RE

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/rwho/whod.*
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
data files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uptime (1),
.BR rwho (1),
.BR in.rwhod (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
