'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rusers 1 "7 Mar 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rusers \- who is logged in on remote machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrusers\fR [\fB-ahilu\fR] \fIhost\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rusers
command produces output similar to
.BR who (1),
but for
remote machines. The listing is in the order that responses are received,
but this order can be changed by specifying one of the options listed
below.
.sp
.LP
The default is to print out the names of the users logged in. When the
.B -l
flag is given, additional information is printed for each user:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIuserid hostname\fB:\fIterminal login_date login_time idle_time login_host\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If
.I hostname
and
.I "login host"
are the same value, the
.I login_host
field is not displayed. Likewise, if
.I hostname
is not
idle, the
.I idle_time
is not displayed.
.sp
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the
.B rusersd
daemon,
which may be started up from
.BR inetd "(1M) or"
.BR listen (1M).
.sp
.LP
In the absence of a name service, such as LDAP or NIS,
.B rusers
displays host names as numeric IP addresses.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Give a report for a machine even if no users are logged on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sort alphabetically by host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sort by idle time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Give a longer listing in the style of
.BR who (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Sort by number of users.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR who (1),
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR listen (1M),
.BR pmadm (1M),
.BR sacadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
