'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rwho 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rwho \- who is logged in on local machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrwho\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rwho
command produces output similar to
.BR who (1),
but for all
machines on your network.  If no report has been received from a machine for
5 minutes,
.B rwho
assumes the machine is down, and does not report users
last known to be logged into that machine.
.sp
.LP
If a user has not typed to the system for a minute or more,
.B rwho
reports this idle time.  If a user has not typed to the system for an hour
or more, the user is omitted from the output of
.B rwho
unless the
.B -a
flag is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Report all users whether or not they have typed to the system in the past
hour.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/rwho/whod.*
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
information about other machines
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWrcmds
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR finger (1),
.BR ruptime (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR in.rwhod (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B rwho
does not work through gateways.
.sp
.LP
The directory
.B /var/spool/rwho
must exist on the host from which
.B rwho
is run.
.sp
.LP
This service takes up progressively more network bandwith as the number of
hosts on the local net increases. For large networks, the cost becomes
prohibitive.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rwho
service daemon,
.BR in.rwhod (1M),
must be enabled for this
command to return useful results.
