'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sag 1 "4 Mar 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sag \- system activity graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsag\fR [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIterm\fR]
     [\fB-x\fR \fIspec\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fIspec\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sag
utility graphically displays the system activity data stored
in a binary data file by a previous
.BR sar (1)
run. Any of the \fBsar\fR
data items may be plotted singly or in combination, as cross plots or versus
time. Simple arithmetic combinations of data may be specified. \fBsag\fR
invokes
.B sar
and finds the desired data by string-matching the data
column header (run
.B sar
.RB "to see what is available). The" " sag"
utility requires a graphic terminal to draw the graph, and uses
.BR tplot (1)
to produce its output. When running Solaris 2.\fIx\fR and
OpenWindows, perform the following steps:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Run an
.B xterm
.RB "as a Tektronics terminal:" " prompt# xterm"
.B -t
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
In the
.B xterm
window, run
.B sag
specifying a
.B tek
terminal:
\fBprompt# sag \fB-T\fB tek options\fR
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported and passed through to
.B sar
(see
.BR sar (1)):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Select data up to
.BR time .
Default is 18:00.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Use \fBfile\fR as the data source for
.BR sar .
Default is the current
daily data file \fB/usr/adm/sa/sa\fIdd.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIsec\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Select data at intervals as close as possible to
.I sec
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Select data later than \fBtime\fR in the form \fIhh\|\fR[\fI:mm\fR].
Default is 08:00.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fIterm\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Produce output suitable for terminal
.IR term .
See
.BR tplot (1)
for
known terminals. Default for
.I term
is
.BR $TERM .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fR \fIspec\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
x axis specification with
.I spec
in the form:
.sp
\fIname\|\fR[\fIop name\fR]\|.\|.\|.\|[\fIlo \|hi\fR]
.sp
\fIname\fR is either a string that will match a column header in the
\fBsar\fR report, with an optional device name in square brackets, for
example, \fBr+w/s[dsk\(mi1]\fR, or an integer value. \fIop\fR is \fB+\fR
\fB\(mi\fR \fB*\fR or \fB/\fR surrounded by blank spaces. Up to five names
may be specified. Parentheses are not recognized. Contrary to custom,
\fB+\fR and \fB-\fR have precedence over \fB*\fR and
.BR / .
Evaluation is
left to right. Thus, A/A+B*100 is evaluated as (A/(A+B))*100, and A+B/C+D is
(A+B)/(C+D).
.I lo
and
.I hi
are optional numeric scale limits. If
unspecified, they are deduced from the data.
.sp
Enclose \fIspec\fR in double-quotes (\fB"\|"\fR) if it includes white
space.
.sp
A single
.I spec
is permitted for the x axis. If unspecified, \fBtime\fR
is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-y\fR \fIspec\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
y axis specification with
.I spec
in the same form as for
.BR -x .
Up
to 5
.I spec
arguments separated by a semi-colon (\fB;\fR) may be given
for
.BR -y .
The
.B -y
default is:
.sp
\fB-y\fB"%usr0100;%usr+%sys0100;%usr+%sys+%wio0100"\fR
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Examples of the \fBsag\fR command.
.sp
.LP
To see today's
.B CPU
utilization:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample$\fR \fBsag\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To see activity over 15 minutes of all disk drives:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample$ TS=`date +%H:%M`
example$ sar -o /tmp/tempfile 60 15
example$ TE=`date +%H:%M`
example$ sag -f /tmp/tempfile -s $TS -e $TE -y "r+w/s[dsk]"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/adm/sa/sa\fBdd\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
daily data file for day
.BR dd
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWaccu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sar (1),
.BR tplot (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Advanced Administration
