'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sar 1 "24 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sar \- system activity reporter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsar\fR [\fB-aAbcdgkmpqruvwy\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfilename\fR] \fIt\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsar\fR [\fB-aAbcdgkmpqruvwy\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIsec\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In the first instance, the
.B sar
utility samples cumulative activity
counters in the operating system at
.I n
intervals of
.I t
seconds,
where
.I t
should be
.B 5
or greater. If
.I t
is specified with
more than one option, all headers are printed together and the output can be
difficult to read. (If the sampling interval is less than
.BR 5 ,
the
activity of
.B sar
itself can affect the sample.) If the
.B -o
option
is specified, it saves the samples in \fIfilename\fR in binary format. The
default value of
.I n
is
.BR 1 .
.sp
.LP
In the second instance, no sampling interval is specified. \fBsar\fR
extracts data from a previously recorded
.IR filename ,
either the one
specified by the \fB-f\fR option or, by default, the standard system
activity daily data file \fB/var/adm/sa/sa\fIdd\fR for the current day
.IR dd .
The starting and ending times of the report can be bounded using
the
.B -e
and
.B -s
arguments with
.I time
specified in the form
\fIhh\fR[:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]]. The \fB-i\fR option selects records at
\fIsec\fR second intervals. Otherwise, all intervals found in the data file
are reported.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options modify the subsets of information reported by
.BR sar .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports use of file access system routines: iget/s, namei/s, dirblk/s
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -A
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports all data. Equivalent to \fB-abcdgkmpqruvwy\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports buffer activity:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bread/s, bwrit/s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
transfers per second of data between system buffers and disk or other block
devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lread/s, lwrit/s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
accesses of system buffers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %rcache, %wcache
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
cache hit ratios, that is, (1\(mibread/lread) as a percentage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pread/s, pwrit/s
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
transfers using raw (physical) device mechanism.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports system calls:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B scall/s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system calls of all types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsread/s, swrit/s, fork/s, exec/s\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
specific system calls.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rchar/s, wchar/s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
characters transferred by read and write system calls. No incoming or
outgoing
.BR exec (2)
and
.BR fork (2)
calls are reported.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports activity for each block device (for example, disk or tape drive)
with the exception of
.B XDC
disks and tape drives. When data is
displayed, the device specification
.I dsk-
is generally used to
represent a disk drive. The device specification used to represent a tape
drive is machine dependent. The activity data reported is:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %busy, avque
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
portion of time device was busy servicing a transfer request, average
number of requests outstanding during that time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B read/s, write/s, blks/s
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
number of read/write transfers from or to device, number of bytes
transferred in 512-byte units.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B avwait
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
average wait time in milliseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B avserv
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
average service time in milliseconds.
.RE

For more general system statistics, use \fBiostat\fR(1M),
.BR sar (1M),
or
.BR vmstat (1M).
.sp
See
.I "System Administration Guide: Advanced Administration"
for naming
conventions for disks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Selects data up to
.BR time .
Default is
.BR 18:00 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Uses \fIfilename\fR as the data source for
.BR sar .
Default is the
current daily data file \fB/var/adm/sa/sa\fIdd.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports paging activities:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pgout/s
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
page-out requests per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ppgout/s
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
pages paged-out per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpgfree/s\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
pages per second placed on the free list by the page stealing daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pgscan/s
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
pages per second scanned by the page stealing daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB%ufs_ipf\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
the percentage of
.B UFS
inodes taken off the freelist by iget which had
reusable pages associated with them. These pages are flushed and cannot be
reclaimed by processes. Thus, this is the percentage of igets with page
flushes.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIsec\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Selects data at intervals as close as possible to
.I sec
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports kernel memory allocation (KMA) activities:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsml_mem, alloc, fail\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
information about the memory pool reserving and allocating space for small
requests: the amount of memory in bytes
.B KMA
has for the small pool,
the number of bytes allocated to satisfy requests for small amounts of
memory, and the number of requests for small amounts of memory that were not
satisfied (failed).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlg_mem, alloc, fail\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
information for the large memory pool (analogous to the information for the
small memory pool).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBovsz_alloc, fail\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
the amount of memory allocated for oversize requests and the number of
oversize requests which could not be satisfied (because oversized memory is
allocated dynamically, there is not a pool).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports message and semaphore activities:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B msg/s, sema/s
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
primitives per second.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Saves samples in file,
.IR filename ,
in binary format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports paging activities:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B atch/s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
page faults per second that are satisfied by reclaiming a page currently in
memory (attaches per second).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pgin/s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
page-in requests per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ppgin/s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
pages paged-in per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpflt/s\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
page faults from protection errors per second (illegal access to page) or
"copy-on-writes".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvflt/s\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
address translation page faults per second (valid page not in memory).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B slock/s
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
faults per second caused by software lock requests requiring physical
.BR I/O .
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports average queue length while occupied, and percent of time occupied:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B runq-sz, %runocc
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Run queue of kernel threads in memory and runnable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B swpq-sz, %swpocc
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Swap queue of processes
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports unused memory pages and disk blocks:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfreemem\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
average pages available to user processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfreeswap\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
disk blocks available for page swapping.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Selects data later than \fBtime\fR in the form \fIhh\fR[:\fImm\fR]. Default
is
.BR 08:00 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports
.B CPU
utilization (the default):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %usr, %sys, %wio, %idle
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
portion of time running in user mode, running in system mode, idle with
some process waiting for block
.BR I/O ,
and otherwise idle.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports status of process, i-node, file tables:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBproc-sz, inod-sz, file-sz, lock-sz\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
entries/size for each table, evaluated once at sampling point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ov
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
overflows that occur between sampling points for each table.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports system swapping and switching activity:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B swpin/s, swpot/s, bswin/s, bswot/s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
number of transfers and number of 512-byte units transferred for swapins
and swapouts (including initial loading of some programs).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pswch/s
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
process switches.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -y
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reports TTY device activity:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rawch/s, canch/s, outch/s
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
input character rate, input character rate processed by canon, output
character rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rcvin/s, xmtin/s, mdmin/s
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
receive, transmit and modem interrupt rates.
.RE

If run in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, these values
reflect activity on the processors of the processor set of the pool to which
the zone is bound.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Viewing System Activity
.sp
.LP
The following example displays today's
.B CPU
activity so far:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% sar
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Watching System Activity Evolve
.sp
.LP
To watch
.B CPU
activity evolve for 10 minutes and save data:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% sar -o temp 60 10
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Reviewing Disk and Tape Activity
.sp
.LP
To later review disk and tape activity from that period:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% sar -d -f temp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/adm/sa/sa\fIdd\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
daily data file, where
.I dd
are digits representing the day of the
month
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWaccu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sag (1),
.BR iostat (1M),
.BR sar (1M),
.BR vmstat (1M),
.BR exec (2),
\fBfork\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Advanced Administration
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The sum of CPU utilization might vary slightly from 100 because of rounding
errors in the production of a percentage figure.
