'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-unget 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-unget, unget \- undo a previous get of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunget\fR [\fB-ns\fR] [\fB-r\fIsid\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B unget
utility undoes the effect of a
.B get-e
command
executed before the creation of the pending delta.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B unget
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the
next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard
input, one
.BR s. file
per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Retains the retrieved version, which is otherwise removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Suppress display of the
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
(SID).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r sid
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
When multiple versions are checked out, this option specifies which pending
delta to abort. A diagnostic results if the specified
.B SID
is
ambiguous, or if it is necessary but omitted from the command line.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR unget :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
