'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-cdc 1 "30 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-cdc, cdc \- change the delta commentary of an SCCS delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcdc\fR \fB-r\fIsid\fR [\fB-m\fImr-list\fR] [\fB-y\fR [\fIcomment\fR]] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B cdc
annotates the delta commentary for the
.B SCCS
delta ID (SID)
specified by the
.B -r
option in each named
.BR s. file.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B v
flag is set in the
.BR s. file,
you can also use
.B
cdc
to update the Modification Request (MR) list.
.sp
.LP
If you checked in the delta, or, if you own the file and directory and have
write permission, you can use
.B cdc
to annotate the commentary.
.sp
.LP
Rather than replacing the existing commentary,
.B cdc
inserts the new
comment you supply, followed by a line of the form:
.sp
.LP
.B
*** CHANGED *** \c
.IB yy / mm /dd
\fIhh\fB/\fImm\fB/\fIss username\fR
.sp
.LP
above the existing commentary.
.sp
.LP
If a directory is named as the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B
cdc
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any). If
.RB ` \(mi \&'
is given as the
.I s.filename
argument, each line
of the standard input is taken as the name of an
.B SCCS
history file to
be processed, and the
.B -m
and
.B -y
options must be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r sid
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify the
.B SID
of the delta to change.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m mr-list
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify one or more MR numbers to add or delete. When specifying more than
one MR on the command line,
.I mr-list
takes the form of a quoted,
.RB "space-separated list. To delete an MR number, precede it with a" " !"
character (an empty
.B MR
list has no effect). A list of deleted
.B MRs
is placed in the comment section of the delta commentary. If
.B -m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal,
.B cdc
prompts
with
.B MRs?
for the list (before issuing the
.B comments?
prompt).
.B -m
is only useful when the
.B v
flag is set in the
.BR s. file.
If
that flag has a value, it is taken to be the name of a program to validate
the MR numbers.  If that validation program returns a non-zero exit status,
.B cdc
terminates and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Use
.I comment
as the annotation in the delta commentary. The previous
comments are retained; the
.I comment
is added along with a notation that
the commentary was changed. A  null
.I comment
leaves the commentary
unaffected. If
.B -y
is not specified and the standard input is a
terminal,
.B cdc
prompts with
.B comments?
for the text of the
notation to be added.  An unescaped
.B NEWLINE
character terminates the
annotation text.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Changing the annotated commentary
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcdc -r1.6 -y"corrected commentary" s.program.c\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
produces the following annotated commentary for delta 1.6 in
.BR s.program.c :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
D 1.6 88/07/05 23:21:07 username 9 0 00001/00000/00000
MRs:
COMMENTS:
corrected commentary
*** CHANGED *** 88/07/07 14:09:41 username
performance enhancements in main()
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B z.file
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
temporary lock file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
