'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-rmdel 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-rmdel, rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrmdel\fR \fB-r\fIsid\fR \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmdel
utility removes the delta specified by the
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
(\fBSID\fR) supplied with
.BR -r .
The delta to be removed must be
the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. In addition, the
.B SID
must
.I not
be that of a version checked out for editing: it must not appear
in any entry of the version lock file (\fBp.\fRfile).
.sp
.LP
If you created the delta, or, if you own the file and directory and have
write permission, you can remove it with
.BR rmdel .
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B rmdel
command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory.
Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the
next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard
input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fIsid\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Remove the version corresponding to the indicated
.B SID
(delta).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR rmdel :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p.file
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
permissions file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s.file
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
history file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B z.file
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
temporary copy of the \fBs.\fRfile
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
