'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-prt 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-prt, prt \- display delta table information from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprt\fR [\fB-abdefistu\fR] [\fB-c\fIdate-time\fR] [\fB-r\fIdate-time\fR]
     [\fB-y\fIsid\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B prt
prints selected portions of an
.B SCCS
file.  By default, it
prints the delta table (version log).
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B prt
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
\fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that
the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one
.BR s. file
per
line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
If any option other than
.BR -y ,
.BR -c ,
or
.B -r
is supplied, the name
of each file being processed (preceded by one
.B NEWLINE
and followed by two
.B NEWLINE
characters) appears above its contents.
.sp
.LP
If none of the
.BR -u ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -t ,
or
.B -b
options are used,
.B -d
is assumed.
.BR -s ,
.B -i
are mutually exclusive, as are
.B -c
and
.BR -r .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Display log entries for all deltas, including those marked as removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print the body of the
.BR s. file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print delta table entries.  This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Everything.  This option implies
.BR -d ,
.BR -i ,
.BR -u ,
.BR -f ,
and
.BR -t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print the flags of each named
.BR s. file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print the serial numbers of included, excluded, and ignored deltas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print only the first line of the delta table entries; that is, only up to the
statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print the descriptive text contained in the
.BR s. file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print the user-names and/or numerical group
.B IDs
of users allowed to make
deltas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -c date-time
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Exclude delta table entries that are specified cutoff date and time. Each
entry is printed as a single line, preceded by the name of the
.B SCCS
file.
This format (also produced by
.B "-r ,"
and
.BR -y )
makes it easy to
sort multiple delta tables in chronological order. When both
.B -y
and
.BR -c ,
or
.B -y
and
.B -r
are supplied,
.B prt
stops printing when
the first of the two conditions is met.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -r date-time
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Exclude delta table entries that are newer than the specified cutoff date and
time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -y sid
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Exclude delta table entries made prior to the
.B SID
specified.  If no
delta in the table has the specified SID, the entire table is printed.  If no
.B SID
is specified, the most recent delta is printed.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Output Format"
.sp
.LP
The following format is used to print those portions of the
.BR s. file
that
are specified by the various options.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B NEWLINE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Type of delta (\fBD\fR or
.BR R )
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
(SID)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Date and time of creation in the form: \fIyy\fB/\fImm\fB/dd\fR
\fIhh\fB/\fImm\fB/\fIss\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Username the delta's creator
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Serial number of the delta
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Predecessor delta's serial number
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Line-by-line change statistics in the form:
\fIinserted\fB/\fIdeleted\fB/\fIunchanged\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B NEWLINE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of included deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any
such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of excluded deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any
such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of ignored deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any
such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of modification requests (MRs), followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if any
.B MR
numbers were supplied).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Lines of the delta commentary (if any), followed by a
.B NEWLINE.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Producing a Display of the Delta Table
.sp
.LP
The following command produces a one-line display of the delta table entry for
the most recent version:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% prt -y program.c
s.program.c:  D 1.6   88/07/06 21:39:39 username   5 4 00159/00080/00636
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
