'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-comb 1 "30 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-comb, comb \- combine SCCS deltas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcomb\fR [\fB-os\fR] [\fB-c\fIsid-list\fR] [\fB-p\fIsid\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B comb
generates a shell script (see
.BR sh (1))
that you can use to
reconstruct the indicated \fBs.\fRfiles. This script is written to the
standard output.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B comb
command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory.
Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the
next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard
input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.sp
.LP
If no options are specified,
.B comb
preserves only the most recent
(leaf) delta in a branch, and the minimal number of ancestors needed to
preserve the history.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
For each `\fBget -e\fR' generated, access the reconstructed file at
the release of the delta to be created. Otherwise, the reconstructed file is
accessed at the most recent ancestor. The use of
.B -o
can decrease the
size of the reconstructed \fBs.\fRfile. It can also alter the shape of the
delta tree of the original file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Generate scripts to gather statistics, rather than combining deltas. When
run, the shell scripts report: the file name, size (in blocks) after
combining, original size (also in blocks), and the percentage size change,
computed by the formula:
.sp
100 * ( \fIoriginal\fB \(mi \fIcombined\fB ) /
.I original
.sp
This option can be used to calculate the space that is saved, before
actually doing the combining.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fIsid-list\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Include the indicated list of deltas.  All other deltas are omitted.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.B SCCS
delta
.BR IDs
(SIDs). To specify a range of deltas, use a `\fB\(mi\fR\&' separator instead
of a comma, between two
.B SIDs
in the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fISID\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.B SID
of the oldest delta to be preserved.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBs.\|COMB\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
reconstructed
.B SCCS
file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B comb?????
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
temporary file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B comb
might rearrange the shape of the tree of deltas. It might not
save any space; in fact, it is possible for the reconstructed file to
actually be larger than the original.
