'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sccs-sccsdiff 1 "30 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-sccsdiff, sccsdiff \- compare two versions of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsccsdiff\fR [\fB-p\fR] \fB-r\fIsid\fR \fB-r\fIsid\fR [\fIdiff-options\fR] \fIs.filename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sccsdiff
compares two versions of an
.B SCCS
file and displays the
differences between the two versions. Any number of
.B SCCS
files can be
specified. The options specified apply to all named \fBs.\fRfiles.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pipe output for each file through
.BR pr (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fIsid\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specify a version corresponding to the indicated
.B SCCS
delta
.BR ID
(SID) for comparison.  Versions are passed to
.BR diff (1)
in the order
given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I diff-options
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pass options to
.BR diff (1),
including:
.BR -b ,
.BR -c ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -h ,
.BR -u ,
.B -C
.IR number ,
.B -U
.IR number ,
and
.B -D
.IR string .
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/get?????
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
temporary files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfilename\fB: No differences\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
If the two versions are the same.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations of other messages.
See
.BR sccs-help (1).
