'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH, the
.\" default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other
.\" than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the
.\" installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH scp 1 "22 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
scp \- secure copy (remote file copy program)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBscp\fR [\fB-pqrvBC46\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIssh_config\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIprogram\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIport\fR]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIcipher\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIidentity_file\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIssh_option\fR]
     [ [\fIuser\fR@]\fIhost1\fR:]\fIfile1\fR [].\|.\|. [ [\fIuser\fR@]\fIhost2\fR:]\fIfile2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scp
utility copies files between hosts on a network. It uses
.BR ssh (1)
for data transfer, and uses the same authentication and
provides the same security as
.BR ssh (1).
Unlike
.BR rcp (1),
.B scp
will ask for passwords or passphrases if they are needed for
authentication.
.sp
.LP
Any file name may contain a host and user specification to indicate that
the file is to be copied to/from that host. Copies between two remote hosts
are permitted.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -4
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Forces
.B scp
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -6
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Forces
.B scp
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -B
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects batch mode. (Prevents asking for passwords or passphrases.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I cipher
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects the cipher to use for encrypting the data transfer. This option is
directly passed to
.BR ssh (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Compression enable. Passes the
.B -C
flag to
.BR ssh (1)
to enable
compression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.I ssh_config
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies an alternative per-user configuration file for
.BR ssh (1.).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I identity_file
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects the file from which the identity (private key) for \fBRSA\fR
authentication is read. This option is directly passed to
.BR ssh (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.I ssh_option
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The given option is directly passed to
.BR ssh (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Preserves modification times, access times, and modes from the original
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -P
.I port
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies the port to connect to on the remote host. Notice that this
option is written with a capital `P', because
.B -p
is already reserved
for preserving the times and modes of the file in
.BR rcp (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Disables the progress meter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Recursively copies entire directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I program
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Specifies the name of the program to use for the encrypted connection. The
program must understand
.BR ssh (1)
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Verbose mode. Causes
.B scp
and
.BR ssh (1)
to print debugging messages
about their progress. This is helpful in debugging connection,
authentication, and configuration problems.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.IR "host1, host2," .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The name(s) of the host from or to which the file is to be copied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile1, file2,\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The file(s) to be copied.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rcp (1),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-add (1),
.BR ssh-agent (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR ssh_config (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Generally, use of
.B scp
with password or keyboard-interactive
authentication method and two remote hosts does not work. It does work with
either the
.BR pubkey ,
.B hostbased
or
.BR gssapi-keyex
authentication method. For the
.B pubkey
authentication method, either
private keys not protected by a passphrase, or an explicit
.B ssh
agent
forwarding have to be used. The
.B gssapi-keyex
authentication method
works with the
.B kerberos_v5
GSS-API mechanism, but only if  the
.B GSSAPIDelegateCredentials
option is enabled.
