'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sdiff 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sdiff \- print differences between two files side-by-side
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsdiff\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoutput\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIn\fR] \fIfilename1\fR \fIfilename2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sdiff
uses the output of the
.B diff
command to produce a
side-by-side listing of two files indicating lines that are different. Lines
of the two files are printed with a blank gutter between them if the lines
are identical, a
.B <
in the gutter if the line appears only in
.IR filename1 ,
a
.B >
in the gutter if the line appears only in
.IR filename2 ,
and a
.B |
for lines that are different. (See the
.B EXAMPLES
section below.)
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Print only the left side of any lines that are identical.to
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Do not print identical lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -o " output"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Use the argument
.I output
as the name of a third file that is created
as a user-controlled merge of
.I filename1
and
.IR filename2 .
Identical
lines of \fIfilename1\fR and \fIfilename2\fR are copied to
.IR output .
Sets of differences, as produced by
.BR diff ,
are printed; where a set of
differences share a common gutter character. After printing each set of
differences, \fBsdiff\fR prompts the user with a \fB%\fR and waits for one
of the following user-typed commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B l
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Append the left column to the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B r
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Append the right column to the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Turn on silent mode; do not print identical lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B v
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Turn off silent mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e l
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Call the editor with the left column.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e r
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Call the editor with the right column.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e b
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Call the editor with the concatenation of left and right.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Call the editor with a zero length file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B q
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Exit from the program.
.RE

On exit from the editor, the resulting file is concatenated to the end of
the
.I output
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -w " n"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Use the argument
.I n
as the width of the output line. The default line
length is 130 characters.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of \fBsdiff\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An example of the
.B sdiff
command.
.sp
.LP
A sample output of
.B sdiff
follows.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
x   |   y
a       a
b   <
c   <
d       d
    >   c
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
If any of the
.B LC_*
variables (
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_NUMERIC ,
and
.B LC_MONETARY
)
(see
.BR environ (5))
are not set in the environment, the operational
behavior of
.B sdiff
for each corresponding locale category is determined
by the value of the
.B LANG
environment variable.  If
.B LC_ALL
is
set, its contents are used to override both the
.B LANG
and the other
.B LC_*
variables.  If none of the above variables is set in the
environment, the "C" locale determines how \fBsdiff\fR behaves.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LC_CTYPE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Determines how
.B sdiff
handles characters. When
.B LC_CTYPE
is set
to a valid value,
.B sdiff
can display and handle text and filenames
containing valid characters for that locale.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWesu
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR ed (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5)
