'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setpgrp 1 "5 Jan 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
setpgrp \- set process group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsetpgrp\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIarg\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If the current process is not already a session leader, the \fBsetpgrp\fR
utility sets the process group
.B ID
and session
.B ID
to the current
process
.B ID
and does an
.B exec()
of
.I command
and its
argument(s), if any.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I command
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The name of a command to be invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An option or argument to
.IR command .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Error executing the
.B setpgrp
utility or during
.B exec()
of
.IR command .
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, the exit status will be that of \fIcommand\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR setpgrp (2),
.BR attributes (5)
