'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH shcomp 1 "27 Jan 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shcomp \- compile a ksh93 shell script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBshcomp\fR [\fB-nv\fR] [\fIinfile\fR [\fIoutfile\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBshcomp\fR \fB-D\fR [\fIinfile\fR [\fIoutfile\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -D
option is not specified,
.B shcomp
takes a shell script,
.IR infile ,
and creates a binary format file,
.IR outfile ,
that
.B ksh93
reads and executes with the same effect as the original
script.
.sp
.LP
Aliases are processed as the script is read. Alias definitions whose value
requires variable expansion will not work correctly.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.br
.na
.B --dictionary
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Generate a list of strings that need to be placed in a message catalog for
internationalization.
.sp
.RB "With this option, all double quoted strings that are preceded by" " $"
are printed, one literal per line. A literal \fB$"foo"\fR prints \fB"foo"\fR
in the output. These are the messages that need to be translated to locale
specific versions for internationalization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.br
.na
.B --noexec
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Display warning messages for obsolete or non-conforming constructs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.br
.na
.B --verbose
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Display input from
.I infile
onto standard error as it reads it.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I infile
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Specifies the name of the file that contains the shell script to be used as
input.
.sp
If
.I infile
is omitted, the shell script is read from standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outfile
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Specifies the name of the output file.
.sp
If
.I outfile
is omitted, both modes write their results to standard
output.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command-line interface and the system variables are Committed. The
compiled shell code format is Private. The output of the
.B -D
option is
Volatile.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR attributes (5)
