'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH shift 1 "20 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shift \- shell built-in function to traverse either a shell's argument list
or a list of field-separated words
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBshift\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBshift\fR [\fIvariable\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*shift\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB+shift\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
The positional parameters from \fB$\fIn\fB+1\fR .\|.\|. are renamed
.B $1
\&.\|.\|. . If
.I n
is not specified, it is assumed to be 1.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
The components of
.IR argv ,
or
.IR variable ,
if supplied, are shifted
to the left, discarding the first component. It is an error for the variable
not to be set or to have a null value.
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The positional parameters from \fB$\fIn\fB+1\fR \fB$\fIn\fB+1 \&.\|.\|.\fR are renamed \fB$1 .\|.\|.\fR, default
.I n
is 1. The
parameter
.I n
can be any arithmetic expression that evaluates to a
non-negative number less than or equal to
.BR $# .
.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two
* (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.B I/O
redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and word splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
.B shift
is a shell special built-in that shifts the positional
parameters to the left by the number of places defined by
.IR n ,
or
.B 1
if
.I n
is omitted. The number of positional parameters remaining
is reduced by the number of places that are shifted.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is specified, it is evaluated as an arithmetic expression to
determine the number of places to shift. It is an error to shift more than
the number of positional parameters or a negative number of places.
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.B shift
in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion. The positional parameters were successfully
shifted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On this manual page,
.BR ksh93 (1)
commands that are preceded by one or
two
.B +
are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.B I/O
redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
They are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words, following a command preceded by
.B ++
that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and field splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
