'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sleep 1 "20 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sleep \- suspend execution for an interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/sleep"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/sleep\fR \fIseconds\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBsleep\fR \fIseconds\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sleep
suspends execution for at least the time in seconds specified
by
.I seconds
or until a
.B SIGALRM
signal is received. The
.I seconds
operand can be specified as a floating point number but the
actual granularity normally depends on the underlying system.
.SH OPERANDS
.SS "/usr/bin/sleep"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for
.B /usr/bin/sleep
and
\fBksh93\fR's \fBsleep\fR built-in command:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I seconds
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A non-negative floating-point number specifying the number of seconds for
which to suspend execution. The floating-point number may be specified in
all formats required by C99/XPG6, including constants such as "Inf" or
"infinite".
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I time
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Specify
.I time
in seconds as a floating point number. The actual
granularity depends on the underlying system, normally around 1
millisecond.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Suspending Command Execution
.sp
.LP
The following example executes a command after a certain amount of time:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB(sleep 105; \fIcommand\fR)&\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Executing a Command Every So Often
.sp
.LP
The following example executes a command every so often:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBwhile true
do
        \fIcommand\fR
        sleep 37
done\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Suspend command execution forever (or until a \fBSIGALRM\fR
signal is received)
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% sleep Inf
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Suspending command execution for 0.5 seconds
.sp
.LP
Suspending command execution for 0.5 seconds using an alternative
floating-point representation for the value "0.5"

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% printf "%a\en" 0.5
0x1.0000000000000000000000000000p-01
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% sleep 0x1.0000000000000000000000000000p-01
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR sleep :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The execution was successfully suspended for at least
.I time
seconds,
or a
.B SIGALRM
signal was received (see NOTES).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/sleep"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR wait (1),
.BR alarm (2),
.BR sleep (3C),
.BR wait (3UCB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the
.B sleep
utility receives a
.B SIGALRM
signal, one of the
following actions is taken:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Terminate normally with a zero exit status.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Effectively ignore the signal.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B sleep
utility takes the standard action for all other signals.
.sp
.LP
The behavior for input values such as "NaN" (not-a-number) or negative
values is undefined.
