'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Right Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright 1994-2008 The FreeBSD Project. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH smbutil 1 "24 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
smbutil \- Solaris CIFS client utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil crypt\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil login [-c] [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil login [-c] [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout -a\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logoutall\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil lookup \fIname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil status \fIserver\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil view [-A | -U \fIuser\fR] //[\fIdomain\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil [\fB-?dv\fR]\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B smbutil
command controls the Solaris CIFS client and issues
various commands.
.SS "Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
The
.B smbutil
command supports the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crypt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a hash of a password. This subcommand prompts for a password and
writes the hash to standard output. This hash value is suitable for use as a
value for the
.B password
property in the
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
file.
.sp
The hashed password begins with two dollar signs
.RB ( $$ ).
If you assign
this hashed password to the
.B password
property in your
.BR $HOME/.nsmbrc ,
be sure that you escape the special characters in the
password.
.sp
If you plan to store hashed passwords in your
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
file,
ensure that the file permissions are set so that only the owner can read or
write the file (\fB400\fR or
.BR 600 ),
or the passwords are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlogin [-c] [ [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR] | [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]
]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies persistent password information to be used for a CIFS server user
account. When you specify this information, mounts can be done without a
password prompt in non-Kerberos configurations. Kerberos sites should use
Kerberos automatically, not prompt for a password. If a default domain is
available in SMF or
.BR nsmbrc (4),
the domain can be omitted. If a user
name is not specified, the Solaris user account name is used.
.sp
Use the
.B -c
to check whether a persistent password is set for the
specified user.
.sp
Passwords can also be stored for a specific server by using a server name
in place of the domain name. This capability is useful with servers that are
configured for "workgroup mode."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlogout [ [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR] | [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]
]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases the persistent passwords for the user running the command.
.sp
The user name and domain name portions of the name are optional. If these
names are not specified, the user name and domain name values are taken from
the properties set in your environment. See the
.BR nsmbrc (4)
manual
page.
.sp
If you stored your password for a specific server, specify the server name
in place of the domain name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logout -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases all of the persistent passwords that are stored for the user who is
running the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logoutall
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases all the persistent passwords that are stored by all users running
the
.B "smbutil login"
command.
.sp
This command must be run as superuser.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "lookup " name
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resolves the specified
.I name
to an IP address.
.sp
This subcommand is only supported if an NBNS/WINS name server is
available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "status " server
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resolves the specified server to the NetBIOS domain and system name.
.I server
can be an IP address or a DNS name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBview [-A | -U \fIuser\fR]
//[\fIdomain\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the resources available to
.I user
on the specified
.IR server .
.sp
You can specify the
.B -A
option to view the resources as an anonymous
user or the
.B -U
.I user
option to view the resources as the
specified user. These options are mutually exclusive.
.sp
If the resource includes a domain, you must escape the semicolon that
appears after the domain name to prevent it from being interpreted by the
command shell. For instance, surround the entire resource name with single
quotes:
.BR "smbutil view '//SALES;george@RSERVER'" .
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following global options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Produces debugging output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Produces verbose output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -?
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prints a short help message.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Creating a Password Hash for the
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
File
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil crypt"
command to
create a hash of the password you specify. Then, you can use the hash as the
value for the
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
file.

.sp
.LP
Be sure to escape the two dollar-sign prefix of the hashed password if you
store it as a value of the
.B password
property.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil crypt\fR
Password:
$$178465324253e0c07
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
file fragment shows how the password hash
value is set:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
[RSERVER:george]
charsets=koi8-r:cp866
password='$$178465324253e0c07'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Storing a Password for a CIFS Server
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil login"
command to
store the
.B root@example
user's password.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil login root@example\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Erasing the Stored Password
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil logout"
command to
remove the
.B root@example
user's password.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil logout root@example\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Viewing Available Shares
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil view"
command to
see the available shares for user
.B root
on server
.BR example .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil view //root@example\fR
Password:
Share        Type       Comment
-------------------------------
netlogon     disk       Network Logon Service
ipc$         IPC        IPC Service (Samba Server)
tmp          disk       Temporary file space
public       disk       Public Stuff
root         disk       Home Directories

5 shares listed from 5 available
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Viewing Available Shares as an Anonymous User
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil view"
command to
anonymously view the available shares on the
.B example
server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil view -A //example\fR
Share        Type       Comment
-------------------------------
netlogon     disk       Network Logon Service
ipc$         IPC        IPC Service (Samba Server)
tmp          disk       Temporary file space
public       disk       Public Stuff
ethereal     disk       /export/ethereal
myshare      disk       Jan's stuff

6 shares listed from 6 available
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Obtaining the IP Address From a Server Name
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil lookup"
command to
obtain the IP address of the
.B example
server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil lookup example\fR
Got response from 192.168.168.210
IP address of example: 192.168.168.210
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 7
Obtaining the NetBIOS Domain and System Name Using the
Server Name
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil status"
command to
obtain the NetBIOS domain and system name of the
.B example
server. The
server name,
.BR example ,
is specified on the command line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil status example\fR
Domain: WORKGROUP
Server: EXAMPLE
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 8
Obtaining the NetBIOS Domain and System Name Using the IP
Address
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the
.B "smbutil status"
command to
obtain the NetBIOS domain and system name of the
.B example
server. The
IP address,
.BR 192.168.168.210 ,
is specified on the command line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil status 192.168.168.210\fR
Domain: WORKGROUP
Server: EXAMPLE
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.nsmbrc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User-settable mount point configuration file to store the description for
each connection.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsmbfscu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The output is Uncommitted. The rest of the interface is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mount_smbfs (1M),
.BR nsmbrc (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smbfs (7FS)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
This manual page contains material originally authored by Boris Popov,
.BR bp@butya.kz ,
.BR bp@FreeBSD.org .
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Solaris CIFS client always attempts to use
.B gethostbyname()
to
resolve host names. If the host name cannot be resolved, the CIFS client
uses NetBIOS name resolution (NBNS). By default, the Solaris CIFS client
permits the use of NBNS to enable Solaris CIFS clients in Windows
environments to work without additional configuration.
.sp
.LP
Since NBNS has been exploited in the past, you might want to disable it. To
disable NBNS, set the
.B nbns-enabled
service management facility
property to
.BR false .
By default,
.B nbns-enabled
is set to
.BR true .
