'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH soelim 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
soelim \- resolve and eliminate .so requests from nroff or troff input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsoelim\fR [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B soelim
reads the specified files or the standard input and performs
the textual inclusion implied by the
.BR nroff (1)
directives of the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\&.so\fR \fIsomefile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
when they appear at the beginning of input lines.
.sp
.LP
This is useful as programs such as
.BR tbl (1)
do not normally do this. It
allows the placement of individual tables in separate files to be run as a
part of a large document.
.sp
.LP
An argument consisting of
.B \(mi
is taken to be a file name
corresponding to the standard input.
.sp
.LP
Inclusion can be suppressed by using a single quote (\fB\&'\fR) instead of
a dot (\fB\&.\fR) that is,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 ' so /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.s
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B soelim
Command
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the
.B soelim
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% soelim exum?.n | tbl | nroff\fR \fB-ms\fR \fB| col | lpr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR more (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR attributes (5)
