'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sortbib 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sortbib \- sort a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsortbib\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIKEYS\fR] \fIdatabase\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sortbib
sorts files of records containing
.B refer
key-letters by
user-specified keys. Records may be separated by blank lines, or by
`\fB\&.[\fR' and `\fB\&.]\fR' delimiters, but the two styles may not be
mixed together. This program reads through each
.I database
and pulls out
key fields, which are sorted separately. The sorted key fields contain the
file pointer, byte offset, and length of corresponding records. These
records are delivered using disk seeks and reads, so
.B sortbib
may not
be used in a pipeline to read standard input.
.sp
.LP
The most common key-letters and their meanings are given below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %A
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Author's name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %B
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Book containing article referenced
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %C
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
City (place of publication)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %D
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Date of publication
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %E
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Editor of book containing article referenced
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %F
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Footnote number or label (supplied by
.BR refer )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %G
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Government order number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %H
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Header commentary, printed before reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %I
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Issuer (publisher)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %J
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Journal containing article
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %K
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Keywords to use in locating reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %L
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Label field used by
.B -k
option of \fBrefer\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %M
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Bell Labs Memorandum (undefined)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %N
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Number within volume
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %O
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Other commentary, printed at end of reference
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %P
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Page number(s)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %Q
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Corporate or Foreign Author (unreversed)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %R
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Report, paper, or thesis (unpublished)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %S
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Series title
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %T
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Title of article or book
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %V
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Volume number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %X
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Abstract \(em used by
.BR roffbib ,
not by \fBrefer\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %Y,Z
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Ignored by \fBrefer\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
By default,
.B sortbib
alphabetizes by the first
.B %A
and the
.B %D
fields, which contain the senior author and date.
.sp
.LP
.B sortbib
sorts on the last word on the
.B %A
line, which is assumed
to be the author's last name. A word in the final position, such as
`\fBjr.\fR' or `\fBed.\fR', will be ignored if the name beforehand ends with
a comma. Authors with two-word last names or unusual constructions can be
sorted correctly by using the \fBnroff\fR convention `\fB\e0\fR\&' in place
of a blank. A
.B %Q
field is considered to be the same as
.BR %A ,
except sorting begins with the first, not the last, word. \fBsortbib\fR
sorts on the last word of the
.B %D
line, usually the year. It also
ignores leading articles (like `\fBA\fR' or `\fBThe\fR') when sorting by
titles in the
.B %T
or
.B %J
fields; it will ignore articles of any
modern European language. If a sort-significant field is absent from a
record,
.B sortbib
places that record before other records containing
that field.
.sp
.LP
No more than 16 databases may be sorted together at one time. Records
longer than 4096 characters will be truncated.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fIKEYS\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specify new
.IR KEYS .
For instance,
.B -sATD
will sort by author,
title, and date, while
.B -sA+D
will sort by all authors, and date. Sort
keys past the fourth are not meaningful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR addbib (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Records with missing author fields should probably be sorted by title.
