'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH spell 1 "23 " "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spell, hashmake, spellin, hashcheck \- report spelling errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBspell\fR [\fB-bilvx\fR] [+ \fIlocal_file\fR] [\fIfile\fR] ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/spell/hashmake\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/spell/spellin\fR \fIn\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/spell/hashcheck\fR \fIspelling_list\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B spell
command collects words from the named \fBfile\fRs and looks
them up in a spelling list. Words that neither occur among nor are derivable
(by applying certain inflections, prefixes, or suffixes) from words in the
spelling list are written to the standard output.
.sp
.LP
If there are no \fBfile\fR arguments, words to check are collected from the
standard input.
.B spell
ignores most
.BR troff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
and
.BR eqn (1)
constructs. Copies of all output words are accumulated in the
history file
.RB ( spellhist ),
and a
.B stop
list filters out
misspellings (for example, \fBtheir=thy\(miy+ier\fR) that would otherwise
pass.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B spell
(like
.BR deroff (1))
follows chains of included
files (\fB\&.so\fR and \fB\&.nx\fR
.BR troff (1)
requests), unless the
names of such included files begin with
.BR /usr/lib .
.sp
.LP
The standard spelling list is based on many sources, and while more
haphazard than an ordinary dictionary, is also more effective in respect to
proper names and popular technical words. Coverage of the specialized
vocabularies of biology, medicine and chemistry is light.
.sp
.LP
Three programs help maintain and check the hash lists used by
.BR spell :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hashmake
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Reads a list of words from the standard input and writes the corresponding
nine-digit hash code on the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B spellin
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Reads
.I n
hash codes from the standard input and writes a compressed
spelling list on the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hashcheck
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Reads a compressed
.I spelling_list
and recreates the nine-digit hash
codes for all the words in it. It writes these codes on the standard
output.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Check British spelling. Besides preferring
.BR centre ,
.BR colour ,
.BR programme ,
.BR speciality ,
.BR travelled ,
and so forth, this
option insists upon \fI\(miise\fR in words like \fBstandardise\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Cause
.BR deroff (1)
to ignore \fB\&.so\fR and \fB\&.nx\fR commands.  If
\fBderoff\fR(1) is not present on the system, then this option is
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Follow the chains of
.I all
included files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print all words not literally in the spelling list, as well as plausible
derivations from the  words in the spelling list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Print every plausible stem, one per line, with
.B =
preceding each
word.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIlocal_file\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify a set of words that are correct spellings (in addition to
\fBspell\fR's own spelling list) for each job. \fIlocal_file\fR is the name
of a user-provided file that contains a sorted list of words, one per line.
Words found in \fIlocal_file\fR are removed from \fBspell\fR's output. Use
.BR sort (1)
to order \fIlocal_file\fR in ASCII collating sequence. If this
ordering is not followed, some entries in \fIlocal_file\fR might be
ignored.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfile\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of a text file to check for spelling errors. If no files are
named, words are collected from the standard input.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR spell :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBD_SPELL=/usr/lib/spell/hlist[ab]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
hashed spelling lists, American & British
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B S_SPELL=/usr/lib/spell/hstop
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
hashed stop list
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B H_SPELL=/var/adm/spellhist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
history file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/dict/words
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
master dictionary
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR deroff (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBspell\fR works only on English words defined in the U.S. \fBASCII\fR
codeset.
.sp
.LP
Because copies of all output are accumulated in the
.B spellhist
file,
\fBspellhist\fR might grow quite large and require purging.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The spelling list's coverage is uneven. New installations might wish to
monitor the output for several months to gather local additions.
.sp
.LP
British spelling was done by an American.
