'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH spline 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spline \- interpolate smooth curve
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBspline\fR [\fB-aknpx\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B spline
takes pairs of numbers from the standard input as abcissas and
ordinates of a function. It produces a similar set, which is approximately
equally spaced and includes the input set, on the standard output. The cubic
spline output (R. W. Hamming, \fINumerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers,\fR2nd ed., 349ff) has two continuous derivatives, and
sufficiently many points to look smooth when plotted, for example by
.BR graph (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Supply abscissas automatically (they are missing from the input); spacing
is given by the next argument, or is assumed to be
.B 1
if next argument
is not a number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The constant
.I k
used in the boundary value computation
.sp
.I "(2nd deriv. at end) = k*(2nd deriv. next to end)
.sp
is set by the next argument. By default
.I k
= 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Space output points so that approximately
.I n
intervals occur between
the lower and upper
.I x
limits.  (Default
.I n
= 100.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Make output periodic, that is, match derivatives at ends. First and last
input values should normally agree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Next 1 (or 2) arguments are lower (and upper)
.I x
limits.  Normally
these limits are calculated from the data. Automatic abcissas start at lower
limit (default 0).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR graph (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
R. W. Hamming,
.IR "Numerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers" ,
2nd
ed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
When data is not strictly monotonic in
.I x,
.B spline
reproduces the
input without interpolating extra points.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
A limit of 1000 input points is enforced silently.
