'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH split 1 "16 Apr 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
split \- split a file into pieces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsplit\fR [\fB-linecount\fR | \fB-l\fR \fIlinecount\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIsuffixlength\fR]
     [\fIfile\fR [\fIname\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsplit\fR [\fB-b\fR \fIn\fR | \fIn\fRk | \fIn\fRm] [\fB-a\fR \fIsuffixlength\fR] [\fIfile\fR [\fIname\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B split
utility reads
.I file
and writes it in
\fIlinecount\fR-line pieces into a set of output-files. The name of the
first output-file is
.I name
with
.B aa
appended, and so on
lexicographically, up to
.B zz
(a maximum of 676 files). The maximum
length of
.I name
is 2 characters less than the maximum filename length
allowed by the filesystem. See
.BR statvfs (2).
If no output name is given,
.B x
is used as the default (output-files will be called
.BR xaa ,
.BR xab ,
and so forth).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fIlinecount\fR \fB| -l\fR \fIlinecount\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of lines in each piece. Defaults to
.B 1000
lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I suffixlength
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses
.I suffixlength
letters to form the suffix portion of the filenames
of the split file. If
.B -a
is not specified, the default suffix length
is
.BR 2 .
If the sum of the
.I name
operand and the \fIsuffixlength\fR
option-argument would create a filename exceeding
.I NAME_MAX
bytes, an
error will result;
.B split
will exit with a diagnostic message and no
files will be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I n
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Splits a file into pieces
.I n
bytes in size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-b\fR \fIn\fBk\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Splits a file into pieces \fIn\fB*1024\fR bytes in size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-b\fR \fIn\fBm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Splits a file into pieces \fIn\fB*1\|048\|576\fR bytes in size.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The path name of the ordinary file to be split. If no input file is given
or \fIfile\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The prefix to be used for each of the files resulting from the
.BR split
operation. If no
.I name
argument is given,
.B x
will be used as the
prefix of the output files. The combined length of the basename of
.I prefix
and
.I suffixlength
cannot exceed
.I NAME_MAX
bytes. See
OPTIONS.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR split
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR split :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee  \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csplit (1),
.BR statvfs (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
