'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ssh-http-proxy-connect 1 "24 Oct 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-http-proxy-connect \- Secure Shell proxy for HTTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect\fR [\fB-h\fR \fIhttp_proxy_host\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIhttp_proxy_port\fR] \fIconnect_host\fR \fIconnect_port\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A proxy command for
.BR ssh (1)
that uses HTTP CONNECT. Typical use is where
connections external to a network are only allowed via a proxy web server.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I http_proxy_host
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Specifies the proxy web server through which to connect. Overrides the
.B HTTPPROXY
and
.B http_proxy
environment variables if they are set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I http_proxy_port
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Specifies the port on which the proxy web server runs. If not specified, port
80 is assumed. Overrides the
.B HTTPPROXYPORT
and
.BR http_proxy
environment variables if they are set.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I http_proxy_host
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The host name or IP address (IPv4 or IPv6) of the proxy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I http_proxy_port
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The numeric port number to connect to on
.IR http_proxy_host .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I connect_host
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The name of the remote host to which the proxy web server is to connect you.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I connect_port
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The numeric port number of the proxy web server to connect you to on
.IR http_proxy_host .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The recommended way to use a proxy connection command is to configure the
.B ProxyCommand
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
(see Example 1 and Example 2). Example
3 shows how the proxy command can be specified on the command line when running
.BR ssh (1).
.LP
.B Example 1
Setting the proxy from the environment
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-http-proxy-connect
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
when the proxy is set from the environment:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect \e
        playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Overriding proxy environment variables
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-http-proxy-connect
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
to override (or if not set) proxy environment variables:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect -h webcache \e
        -p 8080 playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Using the command line
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-http-proxy-connect
from the
.BR ssh (1)
command line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBssh -o'ProxyCommand="/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect \e
    -h webcache -p 8080 playtime.foo.com 22"' playtime.foo.com\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HTTPPROXY
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Takes the
.I http_proxy_host
operand to specify the default proxy host.
Overrides
.B http_proxy
if both are set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HTTPPROXYPORT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Takes the
.I http_proxy_port
operand to specify the default proxy port.
Ignored if
.B HTTPPROXY
is not set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B http_proxy
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
.B URL
format for specifying proxy host and port.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-socks5-proxy-connect (1),
.BR ssh_config (4),
.BR attributes (5)
