'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ssh-keyscan 1 "24 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-keyscan \- gather public ssh host keys of a number of hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-keyscan\fR [\fB-v46\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItimeout\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-\fR] [\fIhost\fR.\|.\|. | \fIaddrlist\fR \fInamelist\fR] [.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keyscan
is a utility for gathering the public ssh host keys of a
number of hosts. It was designed to aid in building and verifying
.B ssh_known_hosts
files.
.B ssh-keyscan
provides a minimal interface
suitable for use by shell and perl scripts. The output of \fBssh-keyscan\fR
is directed to standard output.
.sp
.LP
.B ssh-keyscan
uses non-blocking socket I/O to contact as many hosts as
possible in parallel, so it is very efficient. The keys from a domain of
1,000 hosts can be collected in tens of seconds, even when some of those
hosts are down or do not run ssh. For scanning, one does not need login
access to the machines that are being scanned, nor does the scanning process
involve any encryption.
.SS "File Format"
.sp
.LP
Input format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
1.2.3.4,1.2.4.4
\fIname.my.domain,name,n.my.domain,n,\fR1.2.3.4,1.2.4.4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Output format for
.B rsa1
keys:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost-or-namelist bits exponent modulus\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Output format for
.B rsa
and
.B dsa
keys, where
.I keytype
is
either
.B ssh-rsa
or `\fBssh-dsa\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost-or-namelist keytype base64-encoded-key\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I filename
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Read hosts or addrlist namelist pairs from this file, one per line. If you
specity - instead of a filename,
.B ssh-keyscan
reads hosts or addrlist
namelist pairs from the standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I port
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Port to connect to on the remote host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -T
.I timeout
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Set the timeout for connection attempts. If
.I timeout
seconds have
elapsed since a connection was initiated to a host or since the last time
anything was read from that host, the connection is closed and the host in
question is considered unavailable. The default is for
.I timeout
is 5
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I type
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Specify the type of the key to fetch from the scanned hosts. The possible
values for
.I type
are
.B rsa1
for protocol version 1 and
.B rsa
or
.B dsa
for protocol version 2. Specify multiple values by separating them
with commas. The default is
.BR rsa1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Specify verbose mode. Print debugging messages about progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -4
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Force to use IPv4 addresses only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -6
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Forces to use IPv6 addresses only.
.RE

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
If a
.B ssh_known_hosts
file is constructed using
.BR ssh-keyscan
without verifying the keys, users are vulnerable to man-in-the-middle
attacks. If the security model allows such a risk,
.B ssh-keyscan
can
help in the detection of tampered keyfiles or man-in-the-middle attacks
which have begun after the
.B ssh_known_hosts
file was created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Printing the
.B rsa1
Host Key
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the
.B rsa1
host key for machine
.BR hostname :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ssh-keyscan hostname
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Finding All Hosts
.sp
.LP
The following commands finds all hosts from the file
.B ssh_hosts
which
have new or different keys from those in the sorted file
.BR ssh_known_hosts :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ssh-keyscan -t rsa,dsa -f ssh_hosts | \e
     sort -u - ssh_known_hosts | diff ssh_known_hosts -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ssh_known_hosts
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt

.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
No usage errors.
.B ssh-keyscan
might or might not have succeeded or
failed to scan one, more or all of the given hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Usage error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
David Mazieres wrote the initial version, and Wayne Davison added suppport
for protocol version 2.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
\fBssh\(emkeyscan\fR generates
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Connection closed by remote host
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
messages on the consoles of all machines it scans if the server is older
than version 2.9. This is because
.B ssh-keyscan
opens a connection to
the
.B ssh
port, reads the public key, and drops the connection as soon
as it gets the key.
