'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH,
.\" the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere
.\" other than the default, modify the specified path to access the file
.\" at the installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ssh-add 1 "20 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-add \- add RSA or DSA identities to the authentication agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-add\fR [\fB-lLdDxX\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR] [ \fIfile\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ssh-add
utility adds
.B RSA
or
.B DSA
identities to the
authentication agent,
.BR ssh-agent (1).
When run without arguments, it
attempts to add all of the files
.B $HOME/.ssh/identity
(RSA v1),
\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa\fR (RSA v2), and \fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa\fR (DSA v2) that
exist. If more than one of the private keys exists, an attempt to decrypt
each with the same passphrase is made before reprompting for a different
passphrase. The passphrase is read from the user's tty or by running the
program defined in
.B SSH_ASKPASS
(see below).
.sp
.LP
The authentication agent must be running.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Instead of adding the identity, this option
.B removes
the identity from
the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Deletes all identities from the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Lists fingerprints of all identities currently represented by the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Lists public key parameters of all identities currently represented by the
agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Sets a maximum lifetime when adding identities to an agent. The lifetime
can be specified in seconds or in a time format specified in
.BR sshd (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Locks the agent with a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -X
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Unlocks the agent.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DISPLAY
.ad
.br
.na
.B SSH_ASKPASS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
If
.B ssh-add
needs a passphrase, it reads the passphrase from the
current terminal if it was run from a terminal. If
.B ssh-add
does not
have a terminal associated with it but
.B DISPLAY
and
.BR SSH_ASKPASS
are set, it executes the program specified by
.B SSH_ASKPASS
and open an
X11 window to read the passphrase. This is particularly useful when calling
\fBssh-add\fR from a .Xsession or related script. The system is shipped with
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-askpass\fR which is the default value for
.BR SSH_ASKPASS .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SSH_AUTH_SOCK
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Identifies the path of a unix-domain socket used to communicate with the
agent.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
These files should not be readable by anyone but the user. Notice that
\fBssh-add\fR ignores a file if it is accessible by others. It is possible
to specify a passphrase when generating the key; that passphrase is used to
encrypt the private part of this file.
.sp
.LP
If these files are stored on a network file system it is assumed that
either the protection provided in the file themselves or the transport layer
of the network file system provides sufficient protection for the site
policy. If this is not the case, then it is recommended the key files are
stored on removable media or locally on the relevant hosts.
.sp
.LP
Recommended names for the
.B DSA
and
.B RSA
key files:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/identity
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the
.B RSA
authentication identity of the user for protocol
version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/identity.pub
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the public part of the
.B RSA
authentication identity of the
user for protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_dsa
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the private
.B DSA
authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the public part of the DSA authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the private
.B RSA
authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the public part of the
.B RSA
authentication identity of the
user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-askpass
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Contains the default value for SSH_ASKPASS.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-agent (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
