'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ssh-socks5-proxy-connect 1 "30 Oct 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-socks5-proxy-connect \- Secure Shell proxy for SOCKS5
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-socks5-proxy-connect\fR
     [\fB-h\fR \fIsocks5_proxy_host\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIsocks5_proxy_port\fR] \fIconnect_host\fR \fIconnect_port\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A proxy command for
.BR ssh (1)
that uses SOCKS5 (RFC 1928). Typical use is
where connections external to a network are only allowed via a socks gateway
server.
.sp
.LP
This proxy command does not provide any of the SOCKS5 authentication mechanisms
defined in RFC 1928. Only anonymous connections are possible.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.I socks5_proxy_host
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Specifies the proxy web server through which to connect. Overrides the
.B SOCKS5_SERVER
environment variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.I socks5_proxy_port
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Specifies the port on which the proxy web server runs. If not specified, port
80 is assumed. Overrides the
.B SOCKS5_PORT
environment variable.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I socks5_proxy_host
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The host name or IP address (IPv4 or IPv6) of the proxy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I socks5_proxy_port
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The numeric port number to connect to on
.IR socks5_proxy_host .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I connect_host
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The name of the remote host to which the socks gateway is to connect you.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I connect_port
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The numeric port number of the socks gateway to connect you to on
.IR connect_host .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The recommended way to use a proxy connection command is to configure the
.B ProxyCommand
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
(see Example 1 and Example 2). Example
3 shows how the proxy command can be specified on the command line when running
.BR ssh (1).
.LP
.B Example 1
Setting the proxy from the environment
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-socks5-proxy-connect
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
when the proxy is set from the environment:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-socks5-proxy-connect \e
        playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Overriding proxy environment variables
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-socks5-proxy-connect
in
.BR ssh_config (4)
to override (or if not set) proxy environment variables:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-socks5-proxy-connect -h socks-gw \e
        -p 1080 playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Using the command line
.sp
.LP
The following example uses
.B ssh-socks5-proxy-connect
from the
.BR ssh (1)
command line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBssh -o'ProxyCommand=/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-socks5-proxy-connect \e
    -h socks-gw -p 1080 playtime.foo.com 22' playtime.foo.com\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SOCKS5_SERVER
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Takes
.I socks5_proxy_host
operand to specify the default proxy host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SOCKS5_PORT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Takes
.I socks5_proxy_port
operand to specify the default proxy port.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-http-proxy-connect (1),
.BR ssh_config (4),
.BR attributes (5)
