'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH,
.\" the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere
.\" other than the default, modify the specified path to access the file
.\" at the installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ssh-agent 1 "17 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-agent \- authentication agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-agent\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIbind_address\fR] [\fB-c\fR | \fB-s\fR ] [\fB-d\fR]
     [-t \fIlife\fR] [\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR].\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssh-agent\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-s\fR] \fB-k\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBssh-agent\fR is a program to hold private keys used for public key
authentication (\fBRSA\fR,
.BR DSA ).
\fBssh-agent\fR is often started at
the beginning of a login session. All other windows or programs are started
as clients to the
.B ssh-agent
program. Through use of environment
variables, the agent can be located and automatically used for
authentication when logging in to other machines using
.BR ssh (1).
See the
.IR "System Administration Guide: Security Services" .
.sp
.LP
If a command line is given, this is executed as a subprocess of the agent.
When the command dies, so does the agent.
.sp
.LP
The agent initially does not have any private keys. Keys are added using
.BR ssh-add (1),
which sends the identity to the agent. Several identities
can be stored in the agent; the agent can automatically use any of these
identities. Use the
.B -l
option in
.BR ssh-add (1)
to display the
identities currently held by the agent.
.sp
.LP
The agent is run in the user's local host. Authentication data need not be
stored on any other machine, and authentication passphrases never go over
the network. However, if the connection to the agent is forwarded over
\fBSSH\fR remote logins, the user can use the privileges given by the
identities anywhere in the network in a secure way.
.sp
.LP
There are two main ways to get an agent setup. Either you let the agent
start a new subcommand into which some environment variables are exported,
or you let the agent print the needed shell commands (either
.BR sh (1)
or
.BR csh (1)
syntax can be generated) which can be evalled in the calling
shell. Later, use
.BR ssh (1)
to look at these variables and use them to
establish a connection to the agent.
.sp
.LP
A unix-domain socket is created (\fB/tmp/ssh-XXXXXXXX/agent.\fIpid\fR)
and the name of this socket is stored in the
.B SSH_AUTH_SOCK
environment
variable. The socket is made accessible only to the current user. This
method is easily abused by root or another instance of the same user.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSH_AGENT_PID
environment variable holds the agent's \fBPID\fR.
.sp
.LP
The agent exits automatically when the command given on the command line
terminates.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIbind_address\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Binds the agent to the unix-domain socket bind_address. The default is
\fB/tmp/ssh-XXXXXXXX/agent.\fIpid\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Generates C-shell commands on stdout. This is the default if \fBSHELL\fR
indicates that it is a csh style of shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Debug mode. When this option is specified,
.B ssh-agent
does not fork.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Kills the current agent (given by the
.B SSH_AGENT_PID
environment
variable).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Generates Bourne shell commands on stdout. This is the default if
\fBSHELL\fR does not indicate that it is a csh style of shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Set a default value for the maximum lifetime (\fIlife\fR) of identities
added to the agent. \fIlife\fR can be specified in seconds or in a time
format specified in
.BR sshd_config (4).
\fIlife\fR specified for an
identity with
.BR ssh-add (1)
overrides this value. Without this option the
default maximum \fIlife\fR is forever.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/tmp/ssh-XXXXXXXX/agent.\fIpid\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unix-domain sockets used to contain the connection to the authentication
agent. These sockets should only be readable by the owner. The sockets are
removed when the agent exits.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-add (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
\fBsshd_config\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Security Services
