'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strchg 1 "24 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
strchg, strconf \- change or query stream configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBstrchg\fR \fB-h\fR \fImodule1\fR [, \fImodule2\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstrchg\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-u\fR \fImodule\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstrchg\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstrconf\fR [\fB-m\fR | \fB-t\fR \fImodule\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These commands are used to alter or query the configuration of the stream
associated with the user's standard input. The
.B strchg
command pushes
modules on and/or pops modules off the stream. The \fBstrconf\fR command
queries the configuration of the stream. Only the super-user or owner of a
STREAMS device can alter the configuration of that stream.
.sp
.LP
Invoked without any arguments, \fBstrconf\fR prints a list of all the
modules in the stream as well as the topmost driver. The list is printed
with one name per line where the first name printed is the topmost module on
the stream (if one exists) and the last item printed is the name of the
driver.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options apply to \fBstrchg\fR and, \fB-h\fB,\fR
\fB-f\fB,\fR and \fB-p\fR are mutually exclusive.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pop all the modules above the topmost driver off the stream. This option
requires the
.B -p
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fI filename\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a \fIfilename\fR that contains a list of modules representing the
desired configuration of the stream. Each module name must appear on a
separate line where the first name represents the topmost module and the
last name represents the module that should be closest to the driver.
\fBstrchg\fR determines the current configuration of the stream and pop and
push the necessary modules in order to end up with the desired
configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fI module1\fR [\|,\|\fImodule2\fR.\|.\|.\|]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 Mnemonic for pus\fIh\fR, pushes modules onto a stream. It takes as arguments the names of one or more pushable streams modules. These modules are pushed in order; that is, \fImodule1\fR is pushed first, \fImodule2\fR is pushed second, etc.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mnemonic for po\fIp\fR, pops modules off the stream. With the \fB-p\fR
option alone,
.B strchg
pops the topmost module from the stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -u " module"
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All modules above, but not including
.I module
are popped off the
stream. This option requires the
.B -p
option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options apply to \fBstrconf\fR and,
.B -m
and
.B -t
are
mutually exclusive.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " module"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Determine if the named
.I module
is present on a stream. If it is,
\fBstrconf\fR prints the message \fByes\fR and returns zero. If not,
\fBstrconf\fR prints the message \fBno\fR and returns a non-zero value. The
\fB-t\fR and \fB-m\fR options are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t " module"
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Print only the topmost module (if one exists). The
.B -t
and
.BR -m
options are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using the \fBstrchg\fR Command
.sp
.LP
The following command pushes the module
.B ldterm
on the stream
associated with the user's standard input:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% strchg -h ldterm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command pops the topmost module from the stream associated
with
.BR /dev/term/24 .
The user must be the owner of this device or the
super user.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% strchg -p < /dev/term/24
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the file \fBfileconf\fR contains the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ttcompat
ldterm
ptem
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
then the command

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% strchg -f fileconf
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
configures the user's standard input stream so that the module \fBptem\fR
is pushed over the driver, followed by
.B ldterm
and
.BR ttcompat
closest to the stream head.

.sp
.LP
The \fBstrconf\fR command with no arguments lists the modules and topmost
driver on the stream; for a stream that has only the module \fBldterm\fR
pushed above the
.B zs
driver, it would produce the following output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ldterm
zs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command asks if
.B ldterm
is on the stream:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% strconf -m ldterm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and produces the following output while returning an exit status of 0:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
yes
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR streamio (7I)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBstrchg\fR returns zero on success. It prints an error message and
returns non-zero status for various error conditions, including usage error,
bad module name, too many modules to push, failure of an ioctl on the
stream, or failure to open \fIfilename\fR from the \fB-f\fR option.
.sp
.LP
\fBstrconf\fR returns zero on success (for the \fB-m\fR or \fB-t\fR option,
"success" means the named or topmost module is present). It returns a
non-zero status if invoked with the
.B -m
or
.B -t
option and the
module is not present. It prints an error message and returns non-zero
status for various error conditions, including usage error or failure of an
\fBioctl\fR on the stream.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the user is neither the owner of the stream nor the super-user, the
\fBstrchg\fR command fails. If the user does not have read permissions on
the stream and is not the super user, the \fBstrconf\fR command fails.
.sp
.LP
If modules are pushed in the wrong order, one could end up with a stream
that does not function as expected. For ttys, if the line discipline module
is not pushed in the correct place, one could have a terminal that does not
respond to any commands.
