'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strip 1 "5 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
strip \- strip symbol table, debugging and line number information from an
object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBstrip\fR [\fB-lVx\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strip
command removes the symbol table
.B SHT_SYMTAB
and its
associated string table, debugging information, and line number information
from
.B ELF
object files. That is, besides the symbol table and
associated string table, the following sections are removed:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.line
\&.debug*
\&.stab*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Once this stripping process has been done, limited symbolic debugging
access is available for that file. Therefore, this command is normally run
only on production modules that have been debugged and tested.
.sp
.LP
If
.B strip
is executed on a common archive file (see \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD))
in addition to processing the members,
.B strip
removes the archive
symbol table. The archive symbol table must be restored by executing the
.BR ar (1)
command with the
.B -s
option before the archive can be
linked by the
.BR ld (1)
command.
.B strip
produces appropriate warning
messages when this situation arises.
.sp
.LP
\fBstrip\fR is used to reduce the file storage overhead taken by the object
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The amount of information stripped from the
.B ELF
object file can be
controlled by using any of the following options. The following options are
supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Strip line number information only.Does not strip the symbol table or
debugging information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -V
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints, on standard error, the version number of 
.BR strip .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Does not strip the symbol table. Debugging and line number information
might be stripped.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name referring to an executable file.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR strip :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/strp*
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Temporary files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ar (1),
.BR as (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR mcs (1),
.BR elf (3ELF),
.BR tmpnam (3C),
.BR a.out (4),
.BR ar.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The symbol table section is not removed if it is contained within a segment
or if the file is a relocatable object.
.sp
.LP
The line number and debugging sections are not removed if they are
contained within a segment or if their associated relocation section is
contained within a segment.
.sp
.LP
The
.B strip
command is used to remove a standard predefined set of
sections from an ELF object file. To remove a user specified section by
name, see
.BR mcs (1).
