'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH svcs 1 "6 Nov 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
svcs \- report service status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR [\fB-aHpv?\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR]].\|.\|. [\fB-R\fR \fIFMRI-instance\fR].\|.\|.
     [\fB-sS\fR \fIcol\fR].\|.\|. [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR {\fB-d\fR | \fB-D\fR} [\fB-Hpv?\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR]].\|.\|. [\fB-sS\fR \fIcol\fR].\|.\|.
     [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR] .\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR \fB-l\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR \fB-x\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIFMRI\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B svcs
command displays information about service instances as
recorded in the service configuration repository.
.sp
.LP
The first form of this command prints one-line status listings for service
instances specified by the arguments. Each instance is listed only once. With
no arguments, all enabled service instances, even if temporarily disabled,
are listed with the columns indicated below.
.sp
.LP
The second form prints one-line status listings for the dependencies or
dependents of the service instances specified by the arguments.
.sp
.LP
The third form prints detailed information about specific services and
instances.
.sp
.LP
The fourth form explains the states of service instances. For each argument,
a block of human-readable text is displayed which explains what state the
service is in, and why it is in that state. With no arguments, problematic
services are described.
.sp
.LP
Error messages are printed to the standard error stream.
.sp
.LP
The output of this command can be used appropriately as input to the
.BR svcadm (1M)
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -?
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays an extended usage message, including column specifiers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Show all services, even disabled ones. This option has no effect if services
are selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Lists the services or service instances upon which the given service
instances depend.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Lists the service instances that depend on the given services or service
instances.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Omits the column headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
(The letter ell.) Displays all available information about the selected
services and service instances, with one service attribute displayed for each
line. Information for different instances are separated by blank lines.
.sp
The following specific attributes require further explanation:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dependency
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Information about a dependency. The grouping and
.B restart_on
properties
are displayed first and are separated by a forward slash
.RB ( / ).
Next,
each entity and its state is listed. See
.BR smf (5)
for information about
states. In addition to the standard states, each service dependency can have
the following state descriptions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B absent
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
No such service is defined on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B invalid
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The fault management resource identifier (FMRI) is invalid (see
.BR smf (5)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B multiple
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The entity is a service with multiple instances.
.RE

File dependencies can only have one of the following state descriptions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B absent
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
No such file on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B online
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The file exists.
.sp
If the file did not exist the last time that
.B svc.startd
evaluated the
service's dependencies, it can consider the dependency to be unsatisfied.
.B svcadm refresh
forces dependency re-evaluation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unknown
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.BR stat (2)
failed for a reason other than
.BR ENOENT .
.RE

See
.BR smf (5)
for additional details about dependencies, grouping, and
.B restart_on
values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enabled
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Whether the service is enabled or not, and whether it is enabled or disabled
temporarily (until the next system reboot). The former is specified as either
.B true
or
.BR false ,
and the latter is designated by the presence of
.BR (temporary) .
.sp
A service might be temporarily disabled because an administrator has run
.BR "svcadm disable -t" ,
used
.BR "svcadm milestone" ,
or booted the system to
a specific milestone. See \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) for details.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR].\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Prints the specified columns. Each
.I col
should be a column name. See
.B COLUMNS
below for available columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Lists processes associated with each service instance. A service instance
can have no associated processes. The process ID, start time, and command
name (\fBPID\fR,
.BR STIME ,
and
.B CMD
fields from
.BR ps (1))
are
displayed for each process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -R
.I FMRI-instance
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Selects service instances that have the given service instance as their
restarter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I col
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Sorts output by column.
.I col
.RB "should be a column name. See" " COLUMNS"
below for available columns. Multiple
.B -s
options behave additively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I col
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Sorts by
.I col
in the opposite order as option
.BR -s .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Without
.B -x
or
.BR -l ,
displays verbose columns:
.BR STATE ,
.BR NSTATE ,
.BR STIME ,
.BR CTID ,
and
.BR FMRI .
.sp
With
.BR -x ,
displays extra information for each explanation.
.sp
With
.BR -l ,
displays user-visible properties in property groups of type
.B application
and their description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Displays explanations for service states.
.sp
Without arguments, the
.B -x
option explains the states of services
which:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
are enabled, but are not running.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
are preventing another enabled service from running.
.RE
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I FMRI
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
A fault management resource identifier (FMRI) that specifies one or more
instances (see
.BR smf (5)).
FMRIs can be abbreviated by specifying the
instance name, or the trailing portion of the service name. For example,
given the FMRI:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following are valid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sendmail
:sendmail
smtp
smtp:sendmail
network/smtp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following are invalid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mail
network
network/smt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the FMRI specifies a service, then the command applies to all instances
of that service, except when used with the
.B -D
option.
.sp
Abbreviated forms of FMRIs are unstable, and should not be used in scripts
or other permanent tools.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pattern
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
A pattern that is matched against the \fIFMRI\fRs of service instances
according to the "globbing" rules described by \fBfnmatch\fR(5). If the
pattern does not begin with
.BR svc: ,
then
.B svc:/
is prepended. The
following is a typical example of a glob pattern:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
qexample% svcs \e*keyserv\e*
STATE          STIME     FMRI
disabled       Aug_02    svc:/network/rpc/keyserv:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I FMRI-instance
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
An FMRI that specifies an instance.
.RE

.SH COLUMNS
.sp
.LP
Column names are case insensitive. The default output format is equivalent
to "\fB-o state,stime,fmri\fR". The default sorting columns are
.BR STATE ,
.BR STIME ,
.BR FMRI .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CTID
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The primary contract ID for the service instance. Not all instances have
valid primary contract IDs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DESC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A brief description of the service, from its template element. A service
might not have a description available, in which case a hyphen (\fB\(hy\fR)
is used to denote an empty value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FMRI
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I FMRI
of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B INST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The instance name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NSTA
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The abbreviated next state of the service instance, as given in the
.B STA
column description. A hyphen denotes that the instance is not
transitioning. Same as
.B STA
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NSTATE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The next state of the service. A hyphen is used to denote that the instance
is not transitioning. Same as
.B STATE
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCOPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scope name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SVC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The service name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STA
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The abbreviated state of the service instance (see
.BR smf (5)):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DGD
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
degraded
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DIS
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
disabled
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LRC
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
legacy
.B rc*.d
script-initiated instance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MNT
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
maintenance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B OFF
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
offline
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ON
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
online
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UN
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
uninitialized
.RE

Absent or unrecognized states are denoted by a question mark (\fB?\fR)
character. An asterisk (\fB*\fR) is appended for instances in transition,
unless the
.B NSTA
or
.B NSTATE
column is also being displayed.
.sp
See
.BR smf (5)
for an explanation of service states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STATE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The state of the service instance. An asterisk is appended for instances in
transition, unless the
.B NSTA
or
.B NSTATE
column is also being
displayed.
.sp
See
.BR smf (5)
for an explanation of service states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STIME
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the service instance entered the current state within the last 24 hours,
this column indicates the time that it did so. Otherwise, this column
indicates the date on which it did so, printed with underscores (\fB_\fR) in
place of blanks.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying the Default Output
.sp
.LP
This example displays default output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs
STATE          STIME    FMRI
\&.\|.\|.
legacy_run     13:25:04 lrc:/etc/rc3_d/S42myscript
\&.\|.\|.
online         13:21:50 svc:/system/svc/restarter:default
\&.\|.\|.
online         13:25:03 svc:/milestone/multi-user:default
\&.\|.\|.
online         13:25:07 svc:/milestone/multi-user-server:default
\&.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Listing All Local Instances
.sp
.LP
This example lists all local instances of the
.B service1
service.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -o state,nstate,fmri service1
STATE        NSTATE        FMRI
online       -             svc:/service1:instance1
disabled     -             svc:/service1:instance2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Listing Verbose Information
.sp
.LP
This example lists verbose information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -v network/rpc/rstat:udp
STATE          NSTATE        STIME    CTID   FMRI
online         -             Aug_09        - svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Listing Detailed Information
.sp
.LP
This example lists detailed information about all instances of
.BR system/service3 .
Additional fields can be displayed, as appropriate to
the managing restarter.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -l network/rpc/rstat:udp

fmri         svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
enabled      true
state        online
next_state   none
restarter    svc:/network/inetd:default
contract_id
dependency   require_all/error svc:/network/rpc/bind (online)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Listing Processes
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -p sendmail
STATE          STIME    FMRI
online         13:25:13 svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
               13:25:15   100939 sendmail
13:25:15   100940 sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 6
Explaining Service States Using
.BR "svcs -x"
.sp
.LP
(a) In this example,
.B "svcs -x"
has identified that the
print/server service being disabled is the root cause of two services which
are enabled but not online.
.B "svcs -xv"
shows that those services
are
.B print/rfc1179
and
.BR print/ipp-listener .
This situation can be
rectified by either enabling
.B print/server
or disabling \fBrfc1179\fR
and
.BR ipp-listener .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -x
svc:/application/print/server:default (LP print server)
 State: disabled since Mon Feb 13 17:56:21 2006
Reason: Disabled by an administrator.
   See: http://sun.com/msg/SMF-8000-05
   See: lpsched(1M)
Impact: 2 dependent services are not running. (Use -v for list.)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
(b) In this example, NFS is not working:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ svcs nfs/client
STATE          STIME    FMRI
offline        16:03:23 svc:/network/nfs/client:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
(c) The following example shows that the problem is
.BR nfs/status .
.B nfs/client
is waiting because it depends on
.BR nfs/nlockmgr ,
which
depends on
.BR nfs/status :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ svcs -xv nfs/client
svc:/network/nfs/client:default (NFS client)
 State: offline since Mon Feb 27 16:03:23 2006
Reason: Service svc:/network/nfs/status:default
        is not running because a method failed repeatedly.
   See: http://sun.com/msg/SMF-8000-GE
  Path: svc:/network/nfs/client:default
          svc:/network/nfs/nlockmgr:default
            svc:/network/nfs/status:default
   See: man -M /usr/share/man -s 1M mount_nfs
   See: /var/svc/log/network-nfs-client:default.log
Impact: This service is not running.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful command invocation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Fatal error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Screen output is Uncommitted. The invocation is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ps (1),
.BR svcprop (1),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR stat (2),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR fnmatch (5),
.BR smf (5)
