'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH talk 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
talk \- talk to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtalk\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIterminal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B talk
utility is a two-way, screen-oriented communication
program.
.sp
.LP
When first invoked,
.B talk
sends a message similar to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Message from TalkDaemon@ \fIher_machine\fR at \fItime .\|.\|.\fR
talk: connection requested by \fIyour_address\fR
talk: respond with: talk \fIyour_address\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to the specified
.IR address .
At this point, the recipient of the message
can reply by typing:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
talk \fIyour_address\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Once communication is established, the two parties can type simultaneously,
with their output displayed in separate regions of the screen. Characters
are processed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the alert character will alert the recipient's terminal.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing Control-L will cause the sender's screen regions to be refreshed.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the erase and kill characters will affect the sender's terminal in
the manner described by the \fBtermios\fR(3C) interface.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the interrupt or end-of-file (\fBEOF\fR) characters will terminate
the local
.B talk
utility. Once the
.B talk
session has been
terminated on one side, the other side of the
.B talk
session will be
notified that the
.B talk
session has been terminated and will be able to
do nothing except exit.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing characters from
.B LC_CTYPE
classifications
.B print
or
\fBspace\fR will cause those characters to be sent to the recipient's
terminal.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When and only when the
.B "stty iexten"
local mode is enabled,
additional special control characters and multi-byte or single-byte
characters are processed as printable characters if their wide character
equivalents are printable.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing other non-printable characters will cause them to be written to the
recipient's terminal as follows: control characters will appear as a caret
(\|\fB^\fR\|) followed by the appropriate \fBASCII\fR character, and
characters with the high-order bit set will appear in "meta" notation. For
example, `\fB\e003\fR\&' is displayed as `\fB^C\fR' and `\fB\e372\fR\&' as
`\fBM\(miz\fR'.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Permission to be a recipient of a
.B talk
message can be denied or
granted by use of the
.BR mesg (1)
utility. However, a user's privilege may
further constrain the domain of accessibility of other users' terminals.
Certain commands, such as
.BR pr (1),
disallow messages in order to prevent
interference with their output.
.B talk
will fail when the user lacks the
appropriate privileges to perform the requested action.
.sp
.LP
Certain block-mode terminals do not have all the capabilities necessary to
support the simultaneous exchange of messages required for
.BR talk .
When
this type of exchange cannot be supported on such terminals, the
implementation may support an exchange with reduced levels of simultaneous
interaction or it may report an error describing the terminal-related
deficiency.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I address
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The recipient of the
.B talk
session. One form of
.I address
is the
.IR username ,
as returned by the
.BR who (1)
utility. If you wish to talk
to someone on your own machine, then
.I username
is just the person's
login name. If you wish to talk to a user on another host, then
\fIusername\fR is one of the following forms:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost\fB!\fIuser\fR
\fIhost\fB\&.\fIuser\fR
\fIhost\fB:\fIuser\fR
\fIuser\fB@\fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

although \fIuser\fB@\fIhost\fR is perhaps preferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I terminal
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If the recipient is logged in more than once,
.I terminal
can be used to
indicate the appropriate terminal name. If
.I terminal
is not specified,
the
.B talk
message will be displayed on one or more accessible terminals
in use by the recipient. The format of
.I terminal
will be the same as
that returned by
.BR who .
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR talk :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TERM
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Determine the name of the invoker's terminal type.  If this variable is
unset or null, an unspecified terminal type will be used.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred, or
.B talk
was invoked on a terminal incapable of
supporting it.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
host name database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/utmpx
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
user and accounting information for
.BR talk
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmds
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mail (1),
.BR mesg (1),
.BR pr (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR termios (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Typing Control-L redraws the screen, while the erase, kill, and word kill
characters will work in
.B talk
as normal. To exit, type an interrupt
character.
.B talk
then moves the cursor to the bottom of the screen and
restores the terminal to its previous state.
