'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tbl 1 "2 Aug 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tbl \- format tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtbl\fR [\fB-me\fR] [\fB-mm\fR] [\fB-ms\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B tbl
is a preprocessor for formatting tables for
.BR nroff (1)
or
.BR troff (1).
The input \fIfilename\fRs are copied to the standard output,
except that lines between \fB\&.TS\fR and \fB\&.TE\fR command lines are
assumed to describe tables and are reformatted.
.sp
.LP
If no arguments are given,
.B tbl
.RB "reads the standard input, so" " tbl"
may be used as a filter.  When
.B tbl
is used with
.BR eqn (1)
or
.BR neqn ,
the
.B tbl
command should be first, to minimize the volume of
data passed through pipes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -me
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Copy the
.B -me
macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -mm
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Copy the
.B -mm
macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -ms
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Copy the
.B -ms
macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR tbl
.sp
.LP
As an example, letting `\fB@\fR' (at-sign) represent a
.B TAB,
which
should be typed as an actual
.B TAB
character in the input file

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\&.TS
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town@Households
@Number@Size
Bedminster@789@3.26
Bernards Twp.@3087@3.74
Bernardsville@2018@3.30
Bound Brook@3425@3.04
Branchburg@1644@3.49
\&.TE\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
yields

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
\fBHousehold Population\fR
\fBTown\fR\fBHouseholds\fR
\fBNumber\fR\fBSize\fR
\fBBedminster\fR\fB789\fR\fB3.26\fR
\fBBernards Twp.\fR\fB3087\fR\fB3.74\fR
\fBBernardsville\fR\fB2018\fR\fB3.30\fR
\fBBound Brook\fR\fB3425\fR\fB3.04\fR
\fBBranchburg\fR\fB1644\fR\fB3.49\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/e
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
.B -me
macros
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/m
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
.B -mm
macros
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/s
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
.B -ms
macros
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR eqn (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
