'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.TH tcopy 1 "10 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tcopy \- copy a magnetic tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtcopy\fR \fIsource\fR [\fIdestination\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tcopy
utility copies the magnetic tape mounted on the tape drive
specified by the
.B source
argument. The only assumption made about the
contents of a tape is that there are two tape marks at the end.
.sp
.LP
When only a source drive is specified,
.B tcopy
scans the tape, and
displays information about the sizes of records and tape files. If a
destination is specified,
.B tcopy
makes a copies the source tape onto
the
.I destination
tape, with blocking preserved. As it copies,
.B tcopy
produces the same output as it does when only scanning a tape.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tcopy
utility requires the use of Berkeley-compatible device
names. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtcopy /dev/rmt/1b /dev/rmt/2b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mt (1),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B tcopy
will only run on systems supporting an associated set of
.BR ioctl (2)
requests.
