'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tee 1 "20 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tee \- replicate the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR [\fB-ai\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBtee\fR [\fB-ail\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/bin/tee
copies standard input to standard output, making a copy
in zero or more files.
.B tee
does not buffer its output. The options
determine if the specified files are overwritten or appended to.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B tee
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
paths. It is invoked when tee is executed without a pathname
prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/tee
or
.BR /usr/bin/tee
executable.
.sp
.LP
.B tee
copies standard input to standard output and to zero or more
files. The options determine whether the specified files are overwritten or
appended to. The tee utility does not buffer output. If a write to a file
fails,
.B tee
continues to write to other files although it exits with a
non-zero exit status.
.sp
.LP
The number of
.I file
operands that can be specified is limited by the
underlying operating system.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR /usr/bin/tee :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Appends the output to the files rather than overwriting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Ignores interrupts.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the
.B tee
built-in command in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.br
.na
.B --append
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Appends the output to the files rather than overwriting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.br
.na
.B --ignore-interrupts
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Ignores
.B SIGINT
signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.br
.na
.B --line-buffer
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Sets the standard output to be line buffered.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of an output file. Processing of at least 13 \fIfile\fR
operands are supported.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR tee
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR tee :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.BR /usr/bin/tee :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The standard input was successfully copied to all output files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The number of files that could not be opened or whose status could not be
obtained.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by
.B tee
in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cat (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
