'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
.TH telnet 1 "17 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
telnet \- user interface to a remote system using the TELNET protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtelnet\fR [\fB-8EFKLacdfrx\fR] [\fB-X\fR \fIatype\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIescape_char\fR]
     [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIuser\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIfile\fR]
     [ [ [!] @hop1 [@hop2.\|.\|.] @] \fIhost\fR [\fIport\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B telnet
utility communicates with another host using the
.BR TELNET
protocol. If
.B telnet
is invoked without arguments, it enters command mode,
indicated by its prompt,
.BR telnet> .
In this mode, it accepts and executes
its associated commands. See
.BR USAGE .
If it is invoked with arguments, it
performs an
.B open
command with those arguments.
.sp
.LP
If, for example, a
.I host
is specified as
.IR @hop1@hop2@host ,
the
connection goes through hosts
.I hop1
and
.IR hop2 ,
using loose source
routing to end at
.IR host .
If a leading
.B !
is used, the connection
follows strict source routing. Notice that when
.B telnet
uses IPv6, it can
only use loose source routing, and the connection ignores the \fB!\fR.
.sp
.LP
Once a connection has been opened,
.B telnet
enters input mode. In this
mode, text typed is sent to the remote host. The input mode entered will be
either "line mode", "character at a time", or "old line by line", depending
upon what the remote system supports.
.sp
.LP
In "line mode", character processing is done on the local system, under the
control of the remote system. When input editing or character echoing is to be
disabled, the remote system will relay that information. The remote system will
also relay changes to any special characters that happen on the remote system,
so that they can take effect on the local system.
.sp
.LP
In "character at a time" mode, most text typed is immediately sent to the
remote host for processing.
.sp
.LP
In "old line by line" mode, all text is echoed locally, and (normally) only
completed lines are sent to the remote host. The "local echo character"
(initially
.BR ^E )
may be used to turn off and on the local echo. (Use this
mostly to enter passwords without the password being echoed.).
.sp
.LP
If the "line mode" option is enabled, or if the \fBlocalchars\fR toggle is
\fBTRUE\fR (the default in "old line by line" mode), the user's \fBquit\fR,
.BR intr ,
and \fBflush\fR characters are trapped locally, and sent as
\fBTELNET\fR protocol sequences to the remote side. If "line mode" has ever
been enabled, then the user's
.B susp
and \fBeof\fR are also sent as
\fBTELNET\fR protocol sequences. \fBquit\fR is then sent as a \fBTELNET
ABORT\fR instead of
.BR BREAK .
The options \fBtoggle autoflush\fR and
\fBtoggle autosynch\fR cause this action to flush subsequent output to
the terminal (until the remote host acknowledges the
.B TELNET
sequence);
and to flush previous terminal input, in the case of
.B quit
and
.BR intr .
.sp
.LP
While connected to a remote host, the user can enter
.B telnet
command mode
by typing the
.B telnet
escape character (initially
.BR ^] ).
When in
command mode, the normal terminal editing conventions are available. Pressing
RETURN at the
.B telnet
command prompt causes
.B telnet
to exit command
mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -8
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an 8-bit data path. Negotiating the
.B "TELNET BINARY"
option is
attempted for both input and output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempts automatic login. This sends the user name by means of the \fBUSER\fR
variable of the
.B ENVIRON
option, if supported by the remote system. The
name used is that of the current user as returned by \fBgetlogin\fR(3C) if it
agrees with the current user
.BR ID .
Otherwise, it is the name associated
with the user
.BR ID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the reading of the user's
.B telnetrc
file. (See the \fBtoggle\fR
\fBskiprc\fR command on this reference page.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the initial value of the
.B debug
toggle to
.BR TRUE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fIescape_char\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the initial escape character to
.IR escape_char .
\fIescape_char\fR may
also be a two character sequence consisting of
.B ^
(Control key) followed
by one character. If the second character is
.BR ? ,
the
.B DEL
character
is selected. Otherwise, the second character is converted to a control
character and used as the escape character. If
.I escape_char
is defined as
the null string (that is,
.B -e
\fB\&''\fR), this is equivalent to \fB-e\fR
\&'\fB^@\fR' (Control-@). To specify that no character can be the escape
character, use the
.B -E
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stops any character from being recognized as an escape character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forwards a copy of the local credentials to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -F
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forwards a forwardable copy of the local credentials to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If Kerberos authentication is being used, requests that
.B telnet
obtain
tickets for the remote host in
.I realm
instead of the remote host's default
realm as determined in\fBkrb5.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -K
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies no automatic login to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIuser\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When connecting to a remote system that understands the
.B ENVIRON
option,
then
.I user
will be sent to the remote system as the value for the
\fBENVIRON\fR variable \fBUSER\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an 8-bit data path on output. This causes the
.B BINARY
option to
be negotiated on output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR \fItracefile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Opens \fItracefile\fR for recording trace information. See the \fBset\fR
\fItracefile\fR command below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a user interface similar to
.BR rlogin .
In this mode, the escape
character is set to the tilde (\fB~\fR) character, unless modified by the
\fB-e\fR option. The \fBrlogin\fR escape character is only recognized when it
is preceded by a carriage return. In this mode, the
.B telnet
escape
character, normally '\fB^]\fR', must still precede a
.B telnet
command. The
\fBrlogin\fR escape character can also be followed by '\fB\&.\er\fR' or
\&'\fB^Z\fR', and, like
.BR rlogin (1),
closes or suspends the connection,
respectively. This option is an uncommitted interface and may change in the
future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns on encryption of the data stream. When this option is turned on,
\fBtelnet\fR will exit with an error if authentication cannot be negotiated or
if encryption cannot be turned on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-X\fR \fIatype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the
.I atype
type of authentication.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "telnet Commands"
.sp
.LP
The commands described in this section are available with
.BR telnet .
It is
necessary to type only enough of each command to uniquely identify it. (This is
also true for arguments to the
.BR mode ,
.BR set ,
.BR toggle ,
.BR unset ,
.BR environ ,
and
.B display
commands.)
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auth
.I argument
\&.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B auth
command manipulates the information sent through the
\fBTELNET AUTHENTICATE\fR option. Valid arguments for the \fBauth\fR
command are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdisable\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the specified type of authentication. To obtain a list of available
types, use the
.B "auth disable ?"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBenable\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the specified type of authentication. To obtain a list of available
types, use the
.B "auth enable ?"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the current status of the various types of authentication.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBopen\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIuser\fR ] [ [!] @\fIhop1\fR [@\fIhop2\fR
\&.\|.\|.]@\fIhost\fR [ \fIport\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Open a connection to the named host. If no port number is specified,
\fBtelnet\fR will attempt to contact a \fBTELNET\fR server at the default port.
The host specification may be either a host name (see
.BR hosts (4))
or an
Internet address specified in the "dot notation" (see \fBinet\fR(7P) or
.BR inet6 (7P)).
If the
.I host
is specified as
.IR @hop1@hop2@host ,
the
connection goes through hosts
.I hop1
and
.IR hop2 ,
using loose source
routing to end at
.IR host .
The
.B @
symbol is required as a separator
between the hosts specified. If a leading
.B !
is used with IPv4, the
connection follows strict source routing.
.sp
The
.B -l
option passes the
.I user
as the value of the
.BR ENVIRON
variable
.B USER
to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B close
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Close any open
.B TELNET
session and exit
.BR telnet .
An
.B EOF
(in
command mode) will also close a session and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B encrypt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The encrypt command manipulates the information sent through the
.BR TELNET
\fBENCRYPT\fR option.
.sp
Valid arguments for the encrypt command are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdisable\fR \fItype\fR [\fBinput\fR|\fBoutput\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the specified type of encryption. If you omit the input and output,
both input and output are disabled. To obtain a list of available types, use
the
.B "encrypt disable ?"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBenable\fR \fItype\fR [\fBinput\fR|\fBoutput\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the specified type of encryption. If you omit input and output, both
input and output are enabled. To obtain a list of available types, use the
\fBencrypt enable ?\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B input
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the same as the
.B "encrypt start input"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -input
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the same as the
.B "encrypt stop input"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B output
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the same as the
.B "encrypt start output"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -output
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the same as the
.B "encrypt stop output"
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstart\fR [\fBinput\fR|\fBoutput\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempts to start encryption. If you omit input and output, both input and
output are enabled. To obtain a list of available types, use the \fBencrypt\fR
\fBenable ?\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the current status of encryption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstop\fR [\fBinput\fR|\fBoutput\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stops encryption. If you omit input and output, encryption is on both input
and output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtype\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the default type of encryption to be used with later
.BR encrypt
\fBstart\fR or \fBencrypt stop\fR commands.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Same as
.BR close .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B z
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suspend
.BR telnet .
This command only works when the user is using a shell
that supports job control, such as \fBsh\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmode\fR \fItype\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The remote host is asked for permission to go into the requested mode. If the
remote host is capable of entering that mode, the requested mode will be
entered. The argument
.I type
is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B character
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the
.B "TELNET LINEMODE"
option, or, if the remote side does not
understand the \fBLINEMODE\fR option, then enter "character at a time" mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B line
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable the
.B "TELNET LINEMODE"
option, or, if the remote side does not
understand the \fBLINEMODE\fR option, then attempt to enter "old-line-by-line"
mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBisig\fR (\fB-isig\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to enable (disable) the
.B TRAPSIG
mode of the
.BR LINEMODE
option. This requires that the
.B LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBedit\fR (\fB-edit\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to enable (disable) the
.B EDIT
mode of the
.B LINEMODE
option.
This requires that the
.B LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsofttabs\fR (\fB-softtabs\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to enable (disable) the
.B SOFT_TAB
mode of the
.BR LINEMODE
option. This requires that the
.B LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlitecho\fR (\fB-litecho\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to enable (disable) the
.B LIT_ECHO
mode of the
.BR LINEMODE
option. This requires that the
.B LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints out help information for the
.B mode
command.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current status of
.BR telnet .
This includes the peer one is
connected to, as well as the current mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B display
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
[\fIargument\fR\|.\|.\|.\|] Display all, or some, of the \fBset\fR and
\fBtoggle\fR values (see \fBtoggle\fR \fIargument\fR.\|.\|.).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
[\fIcommand\fR] Get help. With no arguments, \fBtelnet\fR prints a help
summary. If a command is specified,
.B telnet
will print the help
information for just that command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsend\fR \fIargument\fB\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send one or more special character sequences to the remote host. The following
are the arguments that can be specified (more than one argument may be
specified at a time):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B escape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the current \fBtelnet\fR escape character (initially \fB^]\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B synch
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET SYNCH"
sequence. This sequence discards all previously
typed, but not yet read, input on the remote system. This sequence is sent as
\fBTCP\fR urgent data and may not work if the remote system is a 4.2 \fBBSD\fR
system. If it does not work, a lowercase "r" may be echoed on the terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBbrk\fR or \fBbreak\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET BRK"
(Break) sequence, which may have significance to the
remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ip
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET IP"
(Interrupt Process) sequence, which aborts the
currently running process on the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B abort
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET ABORT"
(Abort Process) sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ao
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET AO"
(Abort Output) sequence, which flushes all output
from the remote system to the user's terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ayt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET AYT"
(Are You There) sequence, to which the remote system
may or may not respond.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ec
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET EC"
(Erase Character) sequence, which erases the last
character entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B el
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET EL"
(Erase Line) sequence, which should cause the remote
system to erase the line currently being entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBeof\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET EOF"
(End Of File) sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B eor
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET EOR"
(End Of Record) sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ga
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET GA"
(Go Ahead) sequence, which probably has no
significance for the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B getstatus
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the remote side supports the
.B "TELNET STATUS"
.RB command, " getstatus"
will send the subnegotiation to request that the server send its current option
status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nop
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET NOP"
(No Operation) sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B susp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B "TELNET SUSP"
(Suspend Process) sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdo\fR \fIoption\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBdont\fR \fIoption\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBwill\fR \fIoption\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBwont\fR \fIoption\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send the
.B TELNET
protocol option negotiation indicated. Option may be the
text name of the protocol option, or the number corresponding to the option.
The command will be silently ignored if the option negotiation indicated is not
valid in the current state. If the
.I option
is given as
.B help
or
.BR ? ,
the list of option names known is listed. This command is mostly
useful for unusual debugging situations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print out help information for the
.B send
command.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBset\fR \fIargument\fR [\fIvalue\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBunset\fR \fIargument\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set any one of a number of
.B telnet
variables to a specific value. The
special value \fBoff\fR turns off the function associated with the variable.
The values of variables may be interrogated with the
.B display
command. If
\fIvalue\fR is omitted, the value is taken to be true, or "on". If the
\fBunset\fR form is used, the value is taken to be false, or
.BR off .
The
variables that may be specified are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B echo
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the value (initially \fB^E\fR) that, when in "line by line" mode,
toggles between local echoing of entered characters for normal processing, and
suppressing echoing of entered characters, for example, entering a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B escape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the
.B telnet
escape character (initially
.BR ^] )
that enters
\fBtelnet\fR command mode when connected to a remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B interrupt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode (see \fBtoggle\fR,
.BR localchars )
and the
.B interrupt
.RB "character is typed, a" " TELNET IP"
sequence (see
.B send
and
.BR ip )
is sent to the remote host. The initial
value for the interrupt character is taken to be the terminal's \fBintr\fR
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode and the
.B quit
character is
typed, a
.B "TELNET BRK"
sequence (see \fBsend\fR,
.BR brk )
is sent to the
remote host. The initial value for the quit character is taken to be the
terminal's
.B quit
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBflushoutput\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode and the \fBflushoutput\fR
character is typed, a
.B "TELNET AO"
sequence (see \fBsend\fR,
.BR ao )
is
sent to the remote host. The initial value for the flush character is taken to
be the terminal's \fBflush\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B erase
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is in \fBlocalchars\fR mode \fIand\fR operating in "character
at a time" mode, then when the \fBerase\fR character is typed, a \fBTELNET
EC\fR sequence (see \fBsend\fR,
.BR ec )
is sent to the remote system. The
initial value for the
.B erase
character is taken to be the terminal's
\fBerase\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B kill
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is in \fBlocalchars\fR mode \fIand\fR operating in "character
at a time" mode, then when the \fBkill\fR character is typed, a \fBTELNET EL\fR
sequence (see
.BR send ,
.BR el )
is sent to the remote system. The initial
value for the
.B kill
.RB "character is taken to be the terminal's" " kill"
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBeof\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is operating in "line by line"/ mode, entering the \fBeof\fR
character as the first character on a line sends this character to the remote
system. The initial value of \fBeof\fR is taken to be the terminal's \fBeof\fR
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ayt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode, or
.B LINEMODE
is enabled, and
the status character is typed, a \fBTELNET AYT\fR ("Are You There") sequence is
sent to the remote host. (See
.BR send ,
\fBayt\fR above.) The initial value
for
.B ayt
is the terminal's status character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBforw1\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBforw2\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is operating in
.B LINEMODE,
and the \fBforw1\fR or
\fBforw2\fR characters are typed, this causes the forwarding of partial lines
to the remote system. The initial values for the forwarding characters come
from the terminal's
.B eol
and
.B eol2
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B lnext
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is operating in \fBLINEMODE\fR or "old line by line" mode,
then the
.B lnext
.RB "character is assumed to be the terminal's" " lnext"
character. The initial value for the
.B lnext
character is taken to be the
terminal's
.B lnext
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B reprint
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is operating in \fBLINEMODE\fR or "old line by line" mode,
then the
.B reprint
.RB "character is assumed to be the terminal's" " reprint"
character. The initial value for
.B reprint
is taken to be the terminal's
\fBreprint\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rlogin
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the
.B rlogin
escape character. If set, the normal \fBtelnet\fR
escape character is ignored, unless it is preceded by this character at the
beginning of a line. The
.B rlogin
character, at the beginning of a line
followed by a "\fB\&.\fR" closes the connection. When followed by a \fB^Z\fR,
the
.B rlogin
command suspends the
.B telnet
command. The initial state
is to disable the
.B rlogin
escape character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B start
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the
.B "TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL"
option has been enabled, then the
\fBstart\fR character is taken to be the terminal's \fBstart\fR character. The
initial value for the
.B kill
character is taken to be the terminal's
\fBstart\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stop
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the
.B "TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL"
option has been enabled, then the
\fBstop\fR character is taken to be the terminal's \fBstop\fR character. The
initial value for the
.B kill
character is taken to be the terminal's
\fBstop\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B susp
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode, or
.B LINEMODE
is enabled, and
the
.B suspend
character is typed, a
.B "TELNET SUSP"
sequence (see
.BR send ,
\fBsusp\fR above) is sent to the remote host. The initial value for
the
.B suspend
.RB "character is taken to be the terminal's" " suspend"
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtracefile\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the file to which the output, generated when the
.B netdata
or the
\fBdebug\fR option is
.BR TRUE ,
will be written. If \fBtracefile\fR is set to
"\fB-\fR", then tracing information will be written to standard output (the
default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B worderase
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtelnet\fR is operating in \fBLINEMODE\fR or "old line by line" mode,
then this character is taken to be the terminal's
.B worderase
character.
The initial value for the
.B worderase
character is taken to be the
terminal's
.B worderase
character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the legal
.B set
and
.B unset
commands.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBslc\fR \fIstate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B slc
(Set Local Characters) command is used to set or change the
state of special characters when the
.B "TELNET LINEMODE"
option has been
.RB "enabled. Special characters are characters that get mapped to" " TELNET"
commands sequences (like
.B ip
or
.BR quit )
or line editing characters
(like
.B erase
and
.BR kill ).
By default, the local special characters are
exported. The following values for
.I state
are valid:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B check
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verifies the settings for the current special characters. The remote side is
requested to send all the current special character settings. If there are any
discrepancies with the local side, the local settings will switch to the remote
values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B export
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Switches to the local defaults for the special characters. The local default
characters are those of the local terminal at the time when
.B telnet
was
started.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B import
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Switches to the remote defaults for the special characters. The remote default
characters are those of the remote system at the time when the
.BR TELNET
connection was established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints out help information for the
.B slc
command.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtoggle\fR \fIargument\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggle between
.B TRUE
and
.B FALSE
the various flags that control how
\fBtelnet\fR responds to events. More than one argument may be specified. The
state of these flags may be interrogated with the
.B display
command. Valid
arguments are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B authdebug
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Turns on debugging information for the authentication code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B autodecrypt
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
When the
.B "TELNET ENCRYPT"
option is negotiated, by default the
actual encryption (decryption) of the data stream does not start automatically.
The autoencrypt (autodecrypt) command states that encryption of the output
(input) stream should be enabled as soon as possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B autologin
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
If the remote side supports the
.B "TELNET AUTHENTICATION"
option,
\fBtelnet\fR attempts to use it to perform automatic authentication. If the
\fBAUTHENTICATION\fR option is not supported, the user's login name is
propagated through the
.B "TELNET ENVIRON"
option. This command is the
same as specifying the
.B -a
option on the
.B open
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBautoflush\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
If \fBautoflush\fR and
.B localchars
are both
.B TRUE,
then when the
.BR ao ,
.BR intr ,
or
.B quit
characters are recognized (and transformed
into
.B TELNET
sequences; see
.B set
for details),
.B telnet
refuses
to display any data on the user's terminal until the remote system acknowledges
(using a
.B TELNET
Timing Mark option) that it has processed those
\fBTELNET\fR sequences. The initial value for this toggle is \fBTRUE\fR if the
terminal user has not done an "stty noflsh". Otherwise, the value is
\fBFALSE\fR (see \fBstty\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B autosynch
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
If
.B autosynch
and
.B localchars
are both
.BR TRUE ,
then when either
the
.B interrupt
or
.B quit
characters are typed (see
.B set
for
descriptions of
.B interrupt
and
.BR quit ),
the resulting
.BR TELNET
sequence sent is followed by the
.B "TELNET SYNCH"
sequence. This procedure
\fIshould\fR cause the remote system to begin throwing away all previously
typed input until both of the
.B TELNET
sequences have been read and acted
upon. The initial value of this toggle is \fBFALSE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B binary
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Enable or disable the
.B "TELNET BINARY"
option on both input and output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B inbinary
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Enable or disable the
.B "TELNET BINARY"
option on input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B outbinary
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Enable or disable the
.B "TELNET BINARY"
option on output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcrlf\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Determines how carriage returns are sent. If the value is
.BR TRUE ,
then
carriage returns will be sent as
.BR <CR><LF> \&.
If the value is
.BR FALSE ,
then carriage returns will be send as
.BR <CR><NUL> \&.
The initial value for
this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B crmod
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggle RETURN mode. When this mode is enabled, most RETURN characters received
from the remote host will be mapped into a RETURN followed by a line feed. This
mode does not affect those characters typed by the user, only those received
from the remote host. This mode is useful only for remote hosts that send
RETURN but never send LINEFEED. The initial value for this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggle socket level debugging (only available to the super-user). The initial
value for this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B encdebug
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Turns on debugging information for the encryption code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B localchars
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
If this toggle is
.BR TRUE ,
then the
.BR flush ,
.BR interrupt ,
.BR quit ,
.BR erase ,
and
.B kill
characters (see
.BR set )
are
recognized locally, and transformed into appropriate
.B TELNET
control
sequences, respectively
.BR ao ,
.BR ip ,
.BR brk ,
.BR ec ,
and
.BR el
(see \fBsend\fR). The initial value for this toggle is \fBTRUE\fR in "line by
line" mode, and \fBFALSE\fR in "character at a time" mode. When the
\fBLINEMODE\fR option is enabled, the value of \fBlocalchars\fR is ignored, and
assumed always to be
.BR TRUE .
If
.B LINEMODE
has ever been enabled, then
\fBquit\fR is sent as
.BR abort ,
and \fBeof\fR and
.B suspend
are sent as
\fBeof\fR and \fBsusp\fR (see \fBsend\fR above).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B netdata
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggle the display of all network data (in hexadecimal format). The initial
value for this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B options
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggle the display of some internal
.B TELNET
protocol processing (having
to do with
.B telnet
options). The initial value for this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B prettydump
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
When the
.B netdata
toggle is enabled, if
.B prettydump
is enabled, the
output from the
.B netdata
command will be formatted in a more user readable
format. Spaces are put between each character in the output. The beginning of
any
.B TELNET
escape sequence is preceded by an asterisk (\fB*\fR) to aid in
locating them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B skiprc
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
When the
.B skiprc
toggle is
.BR TRUE ,
\fBTELNET\fR skips the reading of
the \fB\&.telnetrc\fR file in the user's home directory when connections are
opened. The initial value for this toggle is \fBFALSE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B termdata
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Toggles the display of all terminal data (in hexadecimal format). The initial
value for this toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verbose_encrypt
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
When the
.B verbose_encrypt
flag is
.BR TRUE ,
\fBTELNET\fR prints out a
message each time encryption is enabled or disabled. The initial value for this
toggle is
.BR FALSE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Display the legal
.B toggle
commands.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBenviron\fR \fIargument\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B environ
command is used to manipulate variables that may be sent
through the
.B "TELNET ENVIRON"
option. The initial set of variables is taken
from the users environment. Only the
.B DISPLAY
and
.B PRINTER
variables
are exported by default. Valid arguments for the
.B environ
command are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdefine\fR \fIvariable value\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Define
.I variable
to have a value of
.IR value .
Any variables defined by
this command are automatically exported. The
.I value
may be enclosed in
single or double quotes, so that tabs and spaces may be included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBundefine\fR \fIvariable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove
.I variable
from the list of environment variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBexport\fR \fIvariable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark the
.I variable
to be exported to the remote side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBunexport\fR \fIvariable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark the
.I variable
to not be exported unless explicitly requested by the
remote side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B list
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the current set of environment variables. Those marked with an asterisk
(\fB*\fR) will be sent automatically. Other variables will be sent only if
explicitly requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints out help information for the
.B environ
command.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B logout
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sends the
.B "telnet logout"
option to the remote side. This command is
similar to a
.B close
command. However, if the remote side does not support
the
.B logout
option, nothing happens. If, however, the remote side does
support the
.B logout
option, this command should cause the remote side to
close the
.B TELNET
connection. If the remote side also supports the concept
of suspending a user's session for later reattachment, the \fBlogout\fR
argument indicates that the remote side should terminate the session
immediately.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B $HOME/.telnetrc
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
file that contains commands to be executed before initiating a
.BR telnet
session
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnetc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR getlogin (3C),
.BR hosts (4),
\fBkrb5.conf\fR(4),
.BR nologin (4),
.BR telnetrc (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR inet (7P),
.BR inet6 (7P)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "NO LOGINS: System going down in"
.I N
.B minutes
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The machine is in the process of being shut down and logins have been
disabled.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
On some remote systems, echo has to be turned off manually when in "line by
line" mode.
.sp
.LP
In "old line by line" mode, or \fBLINEMODE\fR, the terminal's \fBEOF\fR
character is only recognized (and sent to the remote system) when it is the
first character on a line.
.sp
.LP
The
.B telnet
protocol only uses single DES for session
protection\(emclients request service tickets with single DES session keys. The
KDC must know that host service principals that offer the
.B telnet
service
support single DES, which, in practice, means that such principals must have
single DES keys in the KDC database.
