'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tftp 1 "7 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tftp \- trivial file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtftp\fR [\fIhost\fR [\fIport\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtftp\fR is the user interface to the Internet \fBTFTP\fR (Trivial File
Transfer Protocol), which allows users to transfer files to and from a
remote machine. The remote
.I host
and optional
.I port
may be
specified on the command line, in which case \fBtftp\fR uses
.I host
as
the default host, and if specified,
.I port
as the default port, for
future transfers. See the
.B connect
command below.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Once \fBtftp\fR is running, it issues the prompt \fBtftp>\fR and recognizes
the following commands:
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBconnect\fR \fIhost-name\fR [ \fIport\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the
.IR host ,
and optionally
.IR port ,
for transfers. The
\fBTFTP\fR protocol, unlike the \fBFTP\fR protocol, does not maintain
connections between transfers; thus, the
.B connect
command does not
actually create a connection, but merely remembers what host is to be used
for transfers. You do not have to use the
.B connect
command; the remote
host can be specified as part of the
.B get
or
.B put
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmode\fR \fItransfer-mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the mode for transfers; \fItransfer-mode\fR may be one of \fBascii\fR
or
.BR binary .
The default is
.BR ascii .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBput\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBput\fR \fIlocalfile remotefile\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBput\fR \fIfilename1 filename2 .\|.\|. filenameN
remote-directory\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transfer a file, or a set of files, to the specified remote file or
directory. The destination can be in one of two forms: a filename on the
remote host if the host has already been specified, or a string of the form:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost\fB:\fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2

to specify both a
.I host
and \fIfilename\fR at the same time. If the
latter form is used, the specified host becomes the default for future
transfers. If the remote-directory form is used, the remote host is assumed
to be running the UNIX system.
.sp
The
.I host
can be a host name (see
.BR hosts (4))
or an IPv4 or IPv6
address string (see
.BR inet (7P)
or
.BR inet6 (7P)).
Since IPv6 addresses
already contain \fB":"s\fR, the \fIhost\fR should be enclosed in square
brackets when an IPv6 address is used. Otherwise, the first occurrence of a
colon will be interpreted as the separator between the
.I host
and the
\fIfilename\fR. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[1080::8:800:200c:417A]:myfile
.fi
.in -2

Files may be written only if they already exist and are publicly writable.
See \fBin.tftpd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBget\fR \fIfilename\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBget\fR \fIremotename localname\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBget\fR \fIfilename1 filename2 filename3\fR .\|.\|.
\fIfilenameN\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Get a file or set of files (three or more) from the specified remote
.IR sources .
\fBsource\fR can be in one of two forms: a filename on the
remote host if the host has already been specified, or a string of the form:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost\fB:\fIfilename\fR
.fi
.in -2

to specify both a host and filename at the same time. If the latter form is
used, the last host specified becomes the default for future transfers. See
the
.B put
command regarding specifying a
.IR host .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exit
.BR tftp .
An
.B EOF
also exits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verbose
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggle verbose mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B trace
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggle packet tracing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B status
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show current status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBrexmt\fIretransmission-timeout\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the per-packet retransmission timeout, in seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtimeout\fItotal-transmission-timeout\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the total transmission timeout, in seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ascii
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shorthand for
.BR "mode ascii" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B binary
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shorthand for
.BR "mode binary" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBblksize\fR \fItransfer-blocksize\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of the transfer blocksize option to negotiate with the server. A
value of
.B 0
disables the negotiation of this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsrexmt\fR \fIserver-retransmission-timeout\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of the retransmission timeout option to request that the server
uses. A value of 0 disables the negotiation of this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tsize
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A toggle that sends the transfer size option to the server. By default, the
option is not sent. The transfer size option is not sent with a \fBwrite\fR
request when the \fItransfer-mode\fR is \fBascii\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB? [\fR \fIcommand-name\fR .\|.\|. ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print help information.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtftp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBin.tftpd\fR(1M), \fBhosts\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),\fBinet\fR(7P),
.BR inet6 (7P)
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A.
.IR "RFC 2347, TFTP Option Extension" .
The
Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A.
.IR "RFC 2348, TFTP Blocksize Option" .
The
Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A. \fIRFC 2349, TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer
Size Options\fR. The Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Sollins, K.R.
.IR "RFC 1350, The TFTP Protocol (Revision 2)" .
Network
Working Group. July 1992.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default \fItransfer-mode\fR is
.BR ascii .
This differs from pre-SunOS
4.0 and pre-4.3BSD systems, so explicit action must be taken when
transferring non-ASCII binary files such as executable commands.
.sp
.LP
.RB "Because there is no user-login or validation within the" " TFTP"
protocol, many remote sites restrict file access in various ways. Approved
methods for file access are specific to each site, and therefore cannot be
documented here.
.sp
.LP
When using the
.B get
command to transfer multiple files from a remote
host, three or more files must be specified. If two files are specified, the
second file is used as a local file.
.sp
.LP
With the default block size of
.B 512
octets and a
.BR 16- "bit block"
counter, some
.B TFTP
implementations might have problems with files over
\fB33,553,919\fR octets (\fB513\fR octets short of
.BR 32MB )
in size. The
Solaris implementation can transfer files up to
.B 4GB
in size.
.sp
.LP
By default, the Solaris
.B TFTP
client does not enable the
\fBblocksize\fR or transfer size options. Setting the \fBblocksize\fR option
to a higher value is sometimes useful as a workaround when dealing with
peers that have a
.B 32MB
limit.
