'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH timex 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
timex \- time a command; report process data and system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtimex\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-p\fR [\fB-fhkmrt\fR]] [\fB-s\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The given
.B command
is executed; the elapsed time, user time and system
time spent in execution are reported in seconds. Optionally, process
accounting data for the
.B command
and all its children can be listed or
summarized, and total system activity during the execution interval can be
reported.
.sp
.LP
The output of
.B timex
is written on standard error.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Report the total number of blocks read or written and total characters
transferred by
.B command
and all its children. This option works only
if the process accounting software is installed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
List process accounting records for
.B command
and all its children.
This option works only if the process accounting software is installed.
Suboptions
.BR f ,
.BR h ,
.BR k ,
.BR m ,
.BR r ,
and
.B t
modify
the data items reported. The options are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print the
.BR fork (2)/
.BR exec (2)
flag and system exit status columns
in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Instead of mean memory size, show the fraction of total available CPU time
consumed by the process during its execution. This ``hog factor'' is
computed as (total CPU time)/(elapsed time).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Show mean core size (the default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Show CPU factor (user time/(system-time + user-time)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Show separate system and user CPU times. The number of blocks read or
written and the number of characters transferred are always reported.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Report total system activity
.RB "(not just that due to  " command )
that
occurred during the execution interval of
.BR command .
All the data items
listed in
.BR sar (1)
are reported.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of
.BR timex .
.sp
.LP
A simple example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% timex \fB-ops\fB sleep 60\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A terminal session of arbitrary complexity can be measured by timing a
sub-shell:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% timex \fB-opskmt\fB sh\fR
      \fIsession commands\fR
\fBEOT\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWaccu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sar (1),
.BR time (1),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR times (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Process records associated with
.B command
are selected from the
accounting file
.B /var/adm/pacct
by inference, since process genealogy
is not available. Background processes having the same user ID, terminal ID,
and execution time window will be spuriously included.
