'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2016, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH times 1 "12 Sept 2016" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
times \- shell built-in function to report time usages of the current
shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtimes\fR
.fi

.SS "bosh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtimes\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtimes\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
Print the accumulated user and system times for processes run from the
shell.
.SS "bosh"
.sp
.LP
Print the accumulated user and system times for processes run from the
shell.
The output is
.B POSIX
compliant.
.LP
The first line lists the shell's user and system
times, the second line lists the children's user
and system times.

.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes
run from the shell.
.sp
.LP
On this man page,
.BR ksh (1)
commands that are preceded by one or two *
(asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable
assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the
.B =
sign and word splitting and file name generation are not
performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bosh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR time (1),
.BR attributes (5)
