'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH time 1 "1 Feb 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
time \- time a simple command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtime\fR [\fB-p\fR] \fIutility\fR [\fIargument\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B time
utility invokes
.I utility
operand with
.IR argument ,
and writes a message to standard error that lists timing statistics for
.IR utility .
The message includes the following information:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The elapsed (real) time between invocation of
.I utility
and its
termination.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The User
.B CPU
time, equivalent to the sum of the
.I tms_utime
and
.I tms_cutime
fields returned by the
.BR times (2)
function for the
process in which
.I utility
is executed.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The System
.B CPU
time, equivalent to the sum of the
.I tms_stime
and
.I tms_cstime
fields returned by the
.B times()
function for the
process in which
.I utility
is executed.
.RE
.sp
.LP
When
.B time
is used as part of a pipeline, the times reported are
unspecified, except when it is the sole command within a grouping command in
that pipeline. For example, the commands on the left are unspecified; those
on the right report on utilities
.B a
and
.BR c ,
respectively:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
time a | b | c		{ time a } | b | c
a | b | time c		a | b | (time c)
.fi
.in -2

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Writes the timing output to standard error in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
real %f\enuser %f\ensys %f\en < \fIreal seconds\fR>, <\fIuser seconds\fR>,
<\fIsystem seconds\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I utility
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The name of the utility that is to be invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I argument
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Any string to be supplied as an argument when invoking
.IR utility .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B time
utility returns exit status
.B 127
if an error occurs so
that applications can distinguish "failure to find a utility" from "invoked
utility exited with an error indication." The value \fB127\fR was chosen
because it is not commonly used for other meanings. Most utilities use small
values for "normal error conditions" and the values above \fB128\fR can be
confused with termination due to receipt of a signal. The value
.B 126
was chosen in a similar manner to indicate that the utility could be found,
but not invoked.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the time command
.sp
.LP
It is frequently desirable to apply
.B time
to pipelines or lists of
commands. This can be done by placing pipelines and command lists in a
single file. This single file can then be invoked as a utility, and the
.B time
applies to everything in the file.

.sp
.LP
Alternatively, the following command can be used to apply
.B time
to a
complex command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtime sh -c 'complex-command-line'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Using time in the csh shell
.sp
.LP
The following two examples show the differences between the
.BR csh
version of
.B time
and the version in
.BR /usr/bin/time .
These examples
assume that
.B csh
is the shell in use.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtime find / -name csh.1 -print
/usr/share/man/man1/csh.1\fR
95.0u 692.0s 1:17:52 16% 0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See
.BR csh (1)
for an explanation of the format of
.B time
output.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/bin/time find / -name csh.1 -print
/usr/share/man/man1/csh.1\fR
real  1:23:31.5
user     1:33.2
sys     11:28.2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR time :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_NUMERIC ,
.BR NLSPATH ,
and
.BR PATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
If
.I utility
is invoked, the exit status of
.B time
will be the exit
status of
.IR utility .
Otherwise, the
.B time
utility will exit with
one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB1\(mi125\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An error occurred in the
.B time
utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 126
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.I utility
was found but could not be invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 127
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.I utility
could not be found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR shell_builtins (1),
.BR timex (1),
.BR times (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When the time command is run on a multiprocessor machine, the total of the
values printed for
.B user
and
.B sys
can exceed
.BR real .
This is
because on a multiprocessor machine it is possible to divide the task
between the various processors.
.sp
.LP
When the command being timed is interrupted, the timing values displayed
may not always be accurate.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Elapsed time is accurate to the second, while the
.B CPU
times are
measured to the 100th second. Thus the sum of the
.B CPU
times can be up
to a second larger than the elapsed time.
