'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH tip 1 "28 Nov 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tip \- connect to remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtip\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-speed-entry\fR] {\fIhostname\fR | \fIphone-number\fR | \fIdevice\fR}
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tip
utility establishes a full-duplex terminal connection to a
remote host. Once the connection is established, a remote session using
.B tip
behaves like an interactive session on a local terminal.
.sp
.LP
The
.B remote
file contains entries describing remote systems and line
speeds used by
.BR tip .
.sp
.LP
Each host has a default baud rate for the connection, or you can specify a
speed with the
.BI - speed-entry
command line argument.
.sp
.LP
When
.I phone-number
is specified,
.B tip
looks for an entry in the
.B remote
file of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
tip -\fIspeed-entry\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When
.B tip
finds such an entry, it sets the connection speed
accordingly. If it finds no such entry,
.B tip
interprets
.BI - speed-entry
as if it were a system name, resulting in an error
message.
.sp
.LP
If you omit \fB-\fIspeed-entry\fR, \fBtip\fR uses the
.B tip0
entry
to set a speed for the connection.
.sp
.LP
When
.I device
is specified,
.B tip
attempts to open that device, but
will do so using the access privileges of the user, rather than
.BR tip 's
usual access privileges
.RB ( "setuid uucp" ).
The user must have read/write
access to the device. The
.B tip
utility interprets any character string
beginning with the slash character (\|\fB/\fR\|) as a device name.
.sp
.LP
When establishing the connection,
.B tip
sends a connection message to
the remote system. The default value for this message can be found in the
.B remote
file.
.sp
.LP
When
.B tip
attempts to connect to a remote system, it opens the
associated device with an exclusive-open
.BR ioctl (2)
call. Thus, only one
user at a time may access a device. This is to prevent multiple processes
from sampling the terminal line. In addition,
.B tip
honors the locking
protocol used by
.BR uucp (1C).
.sp
.LP
When
.B tip
starts up, it reads commands from the file \fB\&.tiprc\fR in
your home directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Display commands from the \fB\&.tiprc\fR file as they are executed.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Typed characters are normally transmitted directly to the remote machine,
which does the echoing as well.
.sp
.LP
At any time that
.B tip
prompts for an argument (for example, during
setup of a file transfer), the line typed may be edited with the standard
erase and kill characters. A null line in response to a prompt, or an
interrupt, aborts the dialogue and returns you to the remote machine.
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.LP
A tilde
.RB ( ~ )
appearing as the first character of a line is an escape
signal which directs
.B tip
to perform some special action.
.B tip
recognizes the following escape sequences:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~^D
.ad
.br
.na
.B ~.
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Drop the connection and exit (you may still be logged in on the remote
machine).
.B Note:
If you rlogin and then run
.B tip
on the remote
host, you must type
.B ~~.
.RB "(tilde tilde dot) to end the" " tip"
session. If you type
.B ~.
(tilde dot), it terminates the rlogin.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~c\fR [\fIname\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Change directory to
.IR name .
No argument implies change to your home
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~!
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Escape to an interactive shell on the local machine. Exiting the shell
returns you to
.BR tip .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~>
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Copy file from local to remote.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~<
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Copy file from remote to local.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ~p " from"
[\fI to\fR ]\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Send a file to a remote host running the UNIX system. When you use the put
command, the remote system runs the command string
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcat > \fIto\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

while
.B tip
.RI "sends it the " from " file. If the " to " file is not"
specified, the
.I from
file name is used. This command is actually a
UNIX-system-specific version of the
.RB ` ~> '
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI ~t " from"
[\fI to\fR ]\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Take a file from a remote host running the UNIX system. As in the put
command the
.I to
file defaults to the
.I from
file name if it is not
specified. The remote host executes the command string
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcat \fIfrom\fB\|;  echo ^A\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

to send the file to
.BR tip .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~|
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pipe the output from a remote command to a local process. The command
string sent to the local system is processed by the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~C
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Connect a program to the remote machine. The command string sent to the
program is processed by the shell. The program inherits file descriptors 0
as remote line input, 1 as remote line output, and 2 as tty standard
error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~$
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pipe the output from a local process to the remote host. The command string
sent to the local system is processed by the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~#
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Send a
.B BREAK
to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Set a variable (see the discussion below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~^Z
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Stop
.BR tip .
Only available when run under a shell that supports job
control, such as the C shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~^Y
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Stop only the "local side" of \fBtip\fR. Only available when run under a
shell that supports job control, such as the C shell. The "remote side" of
.BR tip ,
that is, the side that displays output from the remote host, is
left running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~?
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Get a summary of the tilde escapes.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Copying files requires some cooperation on the part of the remote host.
When a
.B ~>
or
.B ~<
escape is used to send a file,
.B tip
prompts
for a file name (to be transmitted or received) and a command to be sent to
the remote system, in case the file is being transferred from the remote
system. While
.B tip
is transferring a file, the number of lines
transferred will be continuously displayed on the screen. A file transfer
may be aborted with an interrupt.
.SS "Auto-call Units"
.sp
.LP
.B tip
may be used to dial up remote systems using a number of auto-call
unit's
.RB ( ACU s).
When the remote system description contains the
.B du
capability,
.B tip
uses the call-unit
.RB ( cu ),
.B ACU
type
(\fBat\fR), and phone numbers (\fBpn\fR) supplied. Normally, \fBtip\fR
displays verbose messages as it dials.
.sp
.LP
Depending on the type of auto-dialer being used to establish a connection,
the remote host may have garbage characters sent to it upon connection. The
user should never assume that the first characters typed to the foreign host
are the first ones presented to it. The recommended practice is to
immediately type a
.B kill
character upon establishing a connection (most
UNIX systems either support
.B @
or Control-U as the initial kill
character).
.sp
.LP
.B tip
currently supports the Ventel MD-212+ modem and DC
Hayes-compatible modems.
.sp
.LP
When
.B tip
initializes a Hayes-compatible modem for dialing, it sets up
the modem to auto-answer. Normally, after the conversation is complete,
\fBtip\fR drops \fBDTR\fR, which causes the modem to "hang up."
.sp
.LP
Most modems can be configured so that when
.B DTR
drops, they
re-initialize themselves to a preprogrammed state. This can be used to reset
the modem and disable auto-answer, if desired.
.sp
.LP
.RB "Additionally, it is possible to start the phone number with a Hayes" " S"
command so that you can configure the modem before dialing. For example, to
disable auto-answer, set up all the phone numbers in
.B /etc/remote
using
something like
.BR pn=S0=0DT5551212 .
The
.B S0=0
disables
auto-answer.
.SS "Remote Host Description"
.sp
.LP
Descriptions of remote hosts are normally located in the system-wide file
.BR /etc/remote .
However, a user may maintain personal description files
(and phone numbers) by defining and exporting the
.B REMOTE
shell
variable. The
.B remote
file must be readable by
.BR tip ,
but a
secondary file describing phone numbers may be maintained readable only by
the user. This secondary phone number file is
.BR /etc/phones ,
unless the
shell variable
.B PHONES
is defined and exported. The phone number file
contains lines of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIsystem-name phone-number\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Each phone number found for a system is tried until either a connection is
established, or an end of file is reached.  Phone numbers are constructed
from `\fB0123456789\(mi=*\fR', where the `\fB=\fR' and `\fB*\fR' are used to
indicate a second dial tone should be waited for (\fBACU\fR dependent).
.SS "tip Internal Variables"
.sp
.LP
.B tip
maintains a set of variables which are used in normal operation.
Some of these variables are read-only to normal users (root is allowed to
change anything of interest). Variables may be displayed and set through the
.B ~s
escape.  The syntax for variables is patterned after
.BR vi (1)
and
.BR mail (1).
Supplying
.B all
as an argument to the
.B ~s
escape
displays all variables that the user can read.  Alternatively, the user may
request display of a particular variable by attaching a
.B ?
to the end.
For example,
.RB ` "~s escape?" '
displays the current escape character.
.sp
.LP
Variables are numeric (num), string (str), character (char), or Boolean
(bool) values. Boolean variables are set merely by  specifying their name.
They may be reset by prepending a
.B !
to the name. Other variable types
are set by appending an
.B =
and the value. The entire assignment must
not have any blanks in it. A single set command may be used to interrogate
as well as set a number of variables.
.sp
.LP
Variables may be initialized at run time by placing set commands (without
the
.B ~s
prefix) in a \fB\&.tiprc\fR file in one's home directory. The
.B -v
option makes
.B tip
display the sets as they are made. Comments
preceded by a
.B #
sign can appear in the  \fB\&.tiprc\fR file.
.sp
.LP
Finally, the variable names must either be completely specified or an
abbreviation may be given.  The following list details those variables known
to
.BR tip .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B beautify
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Discard unprintable characters when a session is being scripted;
abbreviated
.BR be .
If the
.B nb
capability is present,
.B beautify
is initially set to
.BR off .
Otherwise,
.B beautify
is initially set to
.BR on .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B baudrate
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(num) The baud rate at which the connection was established; abbreviated
.BR ba .
If a baud rate was specified on the command line,
.B baudrate
is initially set to the specified value. Or, if the
.B br
capability is
present,
.B baudrate
is initially set to the value of that capability.
Otherwise,
.B baudrate
is set to 300 baud. Once
.B tip
has been
started,
.B baudrate
can only changed by the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dialtimeout
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(num) When dialing a phone number, the time (in seconds) to wait for a
connection to be established; abbreviated
.BR dial .
.B dialtimeout
is
initially set to 60 seconds, and can only changed by the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disconnect
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The string to send to the remote host to disconnect from it;
abbreviated
.BR di .
If the
.B di
capability is present,
.B disconnect
is initially set to the value of that capability.
Otherwise, \fBdisconnect\fR is set to a null string (\fB""\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B echocheck
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Synchronize with the remote host during file transfer by waiting for
the echo of the last character transmitted; abbreviated
.BR ec .
If the
.B ec
capability is present,
.B echocheck
is initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B echocheck
is initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B eofread
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The set of characters which signify an end-of-transmission during a
.B ~<
file transfer command; abbreviated
.BR eofr .
If the
.BR ie
capability is present,
.B eofread
is initially set to the value of that
capability. Otherwise, \fBeofread\fR is set to a null string (\fB""\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B eofwrite
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The string sent to indicate end-of-transmission during a
.B ~>
file transfer command; abbreviated
.BR eofw .
If the
.B oe
capability is
present,
.B eofread
is initially set to the value of that capability.
Otherwise, \fBeofread\fR is set to a null string (\fB""\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B eol
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The set of characters which indicate an end-of-line.
.B tip
will
recognize escape characters only after an end-of-line. If the
.B el
capability is present,
.B eol
is initially set to the value of that
capability. Otherwise, \fBeol\fR is set to a null string (\fB""\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B escape
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(char) The command prefix (escape) character; abbreviated
.BR es .
If the
.B es
capability is present,
.B escape
is initially set to the value
of that capability. Otherwise,
.B escape
is set to `\fB\|~\|\fR\&'.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B etimeout
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(num) The amount of time, in seconds, that
.B tip
should wait for the
echo-check response when
.B echocheck
is set; abbreviated
.BR et .
If
the
.B et
capability is present,
.B etimeout
is initially set to the
value of that capability. Otherwise,
.B etimeout
is set to 10 seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B exceptions
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The set of characters which should not be discarded due to the
beautification switch; abbreviated
.BR ex .
If the
.B ex
capability is
present,
.B exceptions
is initially set to the value of that capability.
Otherwise,
.B exceptions
is set to `\fB\et\en\ef\eb\fR\&'.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B force
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(char) The character used to force literal data transmission; abbreviated
.BR fo .
.RB "If the " fo " capability is present, " force " is initially"
set to the value of that capability. Otherwise,
.B force
is set to
\fB\e377\fR (which disables it).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B framesize
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(num) The amount of data (in bytes) to buffer between file system writes
when receiving files; abbreviated
.BR fr .
If the
.B fs
capability is
present,
.B framesize
is initially set to the value of that capability.
Otherwise,
.B framesize
is set to
.BR 1024 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B halfduplex
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Do local echoing because the host is half-duplex; abbreviated
.BR hdx .
If the
.B hd
capability is present,
.B halfduplex
is
initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B halfduplex
is initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hardwareflow
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Do hardware flow control; abbreviated
.BR hf .
If the 
.B hf
capability is present,
.B hardwareflow
is initially set to
.BR on .
.RB "Otherwise, " hardwareflowcontrol " is initially set to " off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B host
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The name of the host to which you are connected; abbreviated
.BR ho .
.B host
is permanently set to the name given on the command
line or in the
.B HOST
environment variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B localecho
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) A synonym for
.BR halfduplex ;
abbreviated
.BR le .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B log
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The name of the file to which to log information about outgoing phone
calls.
.B log
is initially set to
.BR /var/adm/aculog ,
and can only be
inspected or changed by the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B parity
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The parity to be generated and checked when talking to the remote
host; abbreviated
.BR par .
The possible values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR none >
.ad
.br
.na
.B zero
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Parity is not checked on input, and the parity bit is set to zero on
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B one
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Parity is not checked on input, and the parity bit is set to one on
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B even
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Even parity is checked for on input and generated on output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B odd
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Odd parity is checked for on input and generated on output.
.RE

If the
.B pa
capability is present,
.B parity
is initially set to the
value of that capability; otherwise,
.B parity
is set to
.BR none .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B phones
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file in which to find hidden phone numbers. If the environment variable
.B PHONES
is set,
.B phones
is set to the value of
.BR PHONES .
Otherwise,
.B phones
is set to
.BR /etc/phones .
The value of
.B phones
cannot be changed from within
.BR tip .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B prompt
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(char) The character which indicates an end-of-line on the remote host;
abbreviated
.BR pr .
This value is used to synchronize during data
transfers. The count of lines transferred during a file transfer command is
based on receipt of this character. If the
.B pr
capability is present,
.B prompt
is initially set to the value of that capability. Otherwise,
.B prompt
is set to \fB\en\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B raise
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Upper case mapping mode; abbreviated
.BR ra .
When this mode is
.RB "enabled, all lower case letters will be mapped to upper case by" " tip"
for transmission to the remote machine. If the
.B ra
capability is
present,
.B raise
is initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B raise
is
initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B raisechar
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(char) The input character used to toggle upper case mapping mode;
abbreviated
.BR rc .
If the
.B rc
.RB "capability is present," " raisechar"
is initially set to the value of that capability. Otherwise,
.B raisechar
is set to \fB\e377\fR (which disables it).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rawftp
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Send all characters during file transfers; do not filter
non-printable characters, and do not do translations like \fB\en\fR to
\fB\er\fR\&. Abbreviated
.BR raw .
If the
.B rw
capability is present,
.B rawftp
is initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B rawftp
is
initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B record
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The name of the file in which a session script is recorded;
abbreviated
.BR rec .
If the
.B re
.RB "capability is present," " record"
is initially set to the value of that capability. Otherwise,
.B record
is
set to
.BR tip.record .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B remote
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file in which to find descriptions of remote systems. If the
environment variable
.B REMOTE
is set,
.B remote
is set to the value
of
.BR REMOTE .
Otherwise,
.B remote
is set to
.BR /etc/remote .
The
value of
.B remote
cannot be changed from within
.BR tip .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B script
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Session scripting mode; abbreviated
.BR sc .
When
.B script
is
.BR on ,
.B tip
will record everything transmitted by the remote machine
in the script record file specified in
.BR record .
If the
.B beautify
switch is on, only printable
.B ASCII
characters will be included in the
script file (those characters between 040 and 0177). The variable
.B exceptions
is used to indicate characters which are an exception to
the normal beautification rules. If the
.B sc
capability is present,
.B script
is initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B " script"
is
initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tabexpand
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Expand
.B TAB
characters to
.B SPACE
characters during file
transfers; abbreviated
.BR tab .
When
.B tabexpand
is
.BR on ,
each
tab is expanded to eight SPACE characters. If the
.B tb
capability is
present,
.B tabexpand
is initially set to
.BR on .
Otherwise,
.B tabexpand
is initially set to
.BR off .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tandem
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.RB "(bool) Use " XON / XOFF " flow control to limit the rate that data is"
sent by the remote host; abbreviated
.BR ta .
If the
.B nt
capability
is present,
.B tandem
is initially set to
.BR off .
Otherwise,
.B tandem
is initially set to
.BR on .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B verbose
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(bool) Verbose mode; abbreviated
.BR verb ;
When verbose mode is enabled,
.B tip
prints messages while dialing, shows the current number of lines
transferred during a file transfer operations, and more. If the
.B nv
capability is present,
.B verbose
is initially set to
.BR off .
Otherwise,
.B verbose
is initially set to
.BR on .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHELL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The name of the shell to use for the
.B ~!
command; default value
is
.BR /bin/sh ,
or taken from the environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOME
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
(str) The home directory to use for the
.B ~c
command. Default value is
taken from the environment.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the tip command
.sp
.LP
An example of the dialog used to transfer files is given below.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
arpa% \fBtip monet\fR
[connected]
\&.\|.\|.(assume we are talking to a UNIX system).\|.\|.
ucbmonet login: sam
Password:
monet% cat  sylvester.c
~> Filename: sylvester.c
32 lines transferred in 1 minute 3 seconds
monet%
monet% ~< Filename: reply.c
List command for remote host: cat reply.c
65 lines transferred in 2 minutes
monet%
\&.\|.\|.(or, equivalently).\|.\|.
monet% ~p sylvester.c
\&.\|.\|.(actually echoes as ~[put] sylvester.c).\|.\|.
32 lines transferred in 1 minute 3 seconds
monet%
monet% ~t reply.c
\&.\|.\|.(actually echoes as ~[take] reply.c).\|.\|.
65 lines transferred in 2 minutes
monet%
\&.\|.\|.(to print a file locally).\|.\|.
monet% ~|Local command: pr h sylvester.c | lpr
List command for remote host: cat sylvester.c
monet% ~^D
[EOT]
\&.\|.\|.(back on the local system).\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The following environment variables are read by
.BR tip .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REMOTE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The location of the
.B remote
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PHONES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The location of the file containing private phone numbers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A default host to connect to.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOME
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
One's log-in directory (for chdirs).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHELL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The shell to fork on a
.RB ` ~! '
escape.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/phones
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/remote
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/var/spool/locks/LCK.\|.*\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
lock file to avoid conflicts with
.BR UUCP
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/aculog
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
file in which outgoing calls are logged
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~/.tiprc
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
initialization file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cu (1C),
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR vi (1),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
There are two additional variables,
.B chardelay
and
.BR linedelay ,
that are currently not implemented.
