'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tnfxtract 1 "19 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tnfxtract \- extract kernel probes output into a trace file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtnfxtract\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdumpfile\fR \fB-n\fR \fInamelist\fR] \fItnf_file\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtnfxtract\fR utility collects kernel trace output from an in-core
buffer in the Solaris kernel, or from the memory image of a crashed system,
and generates a binary
.B TNF
trace file like those produced directly by
user programs being traced.
.sp
.LP
Either both or neither of the
.B -d
and
.B -n
options must be
specified. If neither is specified, trace output is extracted from the
running kernel. If both are specified, the
.B -d
argument names the file
containing the (crashed) system memory image, and the
.B -n
argument
names the file containing the symbol table for the system memory image.
.sp
.LP
The
.B TNF
trace file \fItnf_file\fR produced is exactly the same size
as the in-core buffer; it is essentially a snapshot of that buffer.  It is
legal to run \fBtnfxtract\fR while kernel tracing is active, i.e., while the
in-core buffer is being written. \fBtnfxtract\fR insures that the output
file it generates is low-level consistent, that is, that only whole probes
are written out, and that internal data structures in the buffer are not
corrupted because the buffer is being concurrently written.
.sp
.LP
The
.B TNF
trace file generated is suitable as input to
\fBtnfdump\fR(1), which will generate an \fBASCII\fR file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIdumpfile\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Uses \fIdumpfile\fR as the system memory image, instead of the running
kernel. The \fIdumpfile\fR is normally the path name of a file generated by
the
.B savecore
utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fR \fInamelist\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Uses
.I namelist
as the file containing the symbol table information for
the given
.IR dumpfile .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fItnf_file\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Output file generated by \fBtnfxtract\fR based on kernel trace output from
an in-core buffer in the Solaris kernel.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Extracting probes from a running kernel
.sp
.LP
Extract probes from the running kernel into
.BR ktrace.out :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtnfxtract ktrace.out\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Extracting probes from a kernel crash dump
.sp
.LP
Extract probes from a kernel crash dump into
.BR ktrace.out :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtnfxtract -d /var/crash/`uname -n`/vmcore.0 \e
   -n /var/crash/`uname -n`/unix.0 ktrace.out\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnfc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR prex (1),
.BR tnfdump (1),
.BR savecore (1M),
.BR tnf_kernel_probes (4),
.BR attributes (5)
