'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH touch 1 "9 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
touch, settime \- change file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtouch\fR [\fB-acm\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIref_file\fR | \fB-t\fR \fItime\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdate_time\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtouch\fR [\fB-acm\fR] [\fItime_spec\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsettime\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIref_file\fR] [\fItime_spec\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B touch
utility sets the access and modification times of each
file. The
.I file
operand is created if it does not already exist.
.sp
.LP
The time used can be specified by
.BR -t
.IR time ,
by
.BR -d
.IR date_time ,
by the corresponding time fields of the file referenced by
.B -r
.IR ref_file ,
or by the
.I time_spec
operand. If none of these
are specified,
.B touch
uses the current time.
.sp
.LP
If neither the
.B -a
nor
.B -m
options are specified, \fBtouch\fR
updates both the modification and access times.
.sp
.LP
A user with write access to a file, but who is not the owner of the file or
a super-user, can change the modification and access times of that file only
to the current time. Attempts to set a specific time with \fBtouch\fR
results in an error.
.sp
.LP
The
.B settime
utility is equivalent to
.BR "touch -c"
[\fItime_spec\fR] \fIfile\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported in the
.B touch
and
.BR settime
utilities:
.SS "touch"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for the
.B touch
utility:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the access time of
.IR file .
Does not change the modification
time unless
.B -m
is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not create a specified
.I file
if it does not exist. Does not write
any diagnostic messages concerning this condition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.I date_time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the specified date_time instead of the current time. The
option-argument must be a string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIYYYY\fR-\fIMM\fR-\fIDDThh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fISS\fR[.\fIfrac\fR][\fItz\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIYYYY\fR-\fIMM\fR-\fIDDThh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fISS\fR[,\fIfrac\fR][\fItz\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.I YYYY
is at least four decimal digits giving the year
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.IR MM ,
.IR DD ,
.IR hh ,
.IR mm ,
and
.I SS
are as with
.BR -t
.I time
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.I T
is either the letter
.B T
or a single SPACE character
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
[\fI\&.frac\fR] and [\fI,frac\fR] are either empty, or a period (\fB\&.\fR)
or a comma (\fB,\fR) respectively, followed by one or more decimal digits,
specifying a fractional second
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
[\fItz\fR] is either empty, signifying local time, or the letter
.BR Z ,
signifying UTC. If [\fItz\fR] is empty, the resulting time is affected by
the value of the
.B TZ
environment variable
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the modification time of
.IR file .
Does not change the access
time unless
.B -a
is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.I ref_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the corresponding times of the file named by
.I ref_file
instead of
the current time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.I time
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the specified
.I time
instead of the current time.
.I time
is a
decimal number of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[[\fICC\fR]\fIYY\fR]\fIMMDDhhmm\fR[\fI\&.SS\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where each two digits represent the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I MM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The month of the year [01-12].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I DD
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The day of the month [01-31].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hh
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The hour of the day [00-23].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mm
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The minute of the hour [00-59].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I CC
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The first two digits of the year.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I YY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The second two digits of the year.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I SS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The second of the minute [00-61].
.RE

Both
.I CC
and
.I YY
are optional. If neither is given, the current
year is assumed. If
.I YY
is specified, but
.I CC
is not,
.I CC
is
derived as follows:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
If YY is:CC becomes:
_
69-9919
00-3820
39-68ERROR
.TE

The resulting time is affected by the value of the
.B TZ
environment
variable. If the resulting time value precedes the Epoch,
.B touch
exits
immediately with an error status. The range of valid times is the Epoch to
January 18, 2038.
.sp
The range for
.I SS
is [00-61] rather than [00-59] because of leap
seconds. If
.I SS
is 60 or 61, and the resulting time, as affected by the
.B TZ
environment variable, does not refer to a leap second, the
resulting time is one or two seconds after a time where
.I SS
is 59. If
.I SS
is not given, it is assumed to be 0.
.RE

.SS "settime"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported for the
.B settime
utility:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I ref_file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the corresponding times of the file named by
.I ref_file
instead of
the current time.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for the
.B touch
and
.BR settime
utilities:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A path name of a file whose times are to be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I time_spec
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the specified
.I time_spec
instead of the current time. This
operand is a decimal number of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIMMDDhhmm\fR[\fIYY\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where each two digits represent the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I MM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The month of the year [01-12].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I DD
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The day of the month [01-31].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hh
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The hour of the day [00-23].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mm
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The minute of the hour [00-59].
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I YY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The second two digits of the year.
.sp
.I YY
is optional. If it is omitted, the current year is assumed. If
.I YY
is specified, the year is derived as follows:
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
YYCorresponding Year
69-991969-1999
00-382000-2038
39-68ERROR
.TE

If no
.BR -d ,
.BR -r ,
or \fB-t\fRoption is specified, at least two
operands are specified, and the first operand is an eight- or ten-digit
decimal integer, the first operand is assumed to be a \fItime_spec\fR
operand. Otherwise, the first operand is assumed to be a \fIfile\fR
operand.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.BR touch
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR touch :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TZ
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determine the timezone to be used for interpreting the
.I time
or
.I date_time
option-argument or the
.I time_spec
operand.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B touch
utility executed successfully and all requested changes
were made.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred. The
.B touch
utility returned the number of files for
which the times could not be successfully modified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR futimens (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR largefile (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Users familiar with the BSD environment find that for the
.BR touch
utility, the \fB-f\fR option is accepted but ignored. The \fB-f\fR option is
unnecessary because
.B touch
succeeds for all files owned by the user
regardless of the permissions on the files.
