'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH troff 1 "24 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
troff \- typeset or format documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtroff\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-F\fIdir\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-m\fIname\fR] [\fB-n\fIN\fR] [\fB-o\fIlist\fR] [\fB-r\fIaN\fR]
     [\fB-s\fIN\fR] [\fB-T\fIdest\fR] [\fB-u\fIN\fR] [\fB-z\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtroff\fR formats text in the \fIfilename\fRs for typesetting or laser
printing. Input to \fBtroff\fR is expected to consist of text interspersed
with formatting requests and macros. If no \fIfilename\fR argument is
present, \fBtroff\fR reads standard input. A minus sign (\(mi) as a
\fIfilename\fR indicates that standard input should be read at that point in
the list of input files.
.sp
.LP
The output of \fBtroff\fR is usually piped through
.BR dpost (1)
to create
a printable postscript file (see \fBEXAMPLES\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. They may appear in any order, but all
must appear before the first \fIfilename\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Send an
.B ASCII
approximation of formatted output to standard output.
(Note: a rough
.B ASCII
version can also be printed out on ordinary
terminals with an old and rarely used command, \fB/usr/bin/ta\fR.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Do not print a trailer after the final page of output or cause the
postprocessor to relinquish control of the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-F\fIdir\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Search directory
.I dir
for font width or terminal tables instead of the
system default directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read standard input after all input files are exhausted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-m\fIname\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Prepend the macro file \fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/\fIname\fR to the input
\fIfilename\fRs. Note: most references to macro packages include the leading
\fIm\fR as part of the name; for example, the
.BR man (5)
macros reside in
.BR /usr/share/lib/tmac/an .
The macro directory can be changed by setting
the
.B TROFFMACS
environment variable to a specific path. Be certain to
include the trailing '\|/\|' (slash) at the end of the path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fIN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number the first generated page
.IR N .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fIlist\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
\fIlist\fR of numbers and ranges.  A range \fIN\fB\(mi\fIM\fR means
pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial \fB\(mi\fIN\fR means from the
beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final \fIN\fB\(mi\fR means from \fIN\fR
to the end.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Quiet mode in
.BR nroff ;
ignored in \fBtroff\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-r\fIaN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Set register
.I a
(one-character names only) to \fIN\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fIN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Stop the phototypesetter every
.I N
pages. On some devices, \fBtroff\fR
produces a trailer so you can change cassettes; resume by pressing the
typesetter's start button.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fIdest\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Prepare output for typesetter
.IR dest .
The following values can be
supplied for
.IR dest :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B post
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A PostScript printer; this is the default value. The output of the \fB-T\fR
option must go through
.BR dpost (1)
before it is sent to a PostScript
printer to obtain the proper output.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fIN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Set the emboldening factor for the font mounted in position 3 to
.IR N .
If
.I N
is missing, then set the emboldening factor to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Suppress formatted output. Only diagnostic messages and messages output
using the \fB\&.tm\fR request are output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfilename\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The file containing text to be processed by \fBtroff\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBtroff\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to print an input text file
.BR mytext ,
coded with formatting requests and macros. The input file contains equations
and tables and must go through the
.BR tbl (1)
and
.BR eqn (1)
preprocessors before it is formatted by \fBtroff\fR with
.B ms
macros,
processed by
.BR dpost (1),
and printed by
.BR lp (1):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
tbl mytext | eqn | troff -ms | dpost | lp
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /tmp/trtmp
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
temporary file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/*
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
standard macro files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/font/*\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
font width tables for alternate mounted \fBtroff\fR fonts
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/nterm/*
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
terminal driving tables for \fBnroff\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR checknr (1),
.BR col (1),
.BR dpost (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR man (1),
\fBnroff\fR(1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR man (5),
.BR me (5),
.BR ms (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBtroff\fR is not 8-bit clean because it is by design based on 7-bit
.B ASCII.
.sp
.LP
Previous documentation incorrectly described the numeric register
.BR yr
as being the
.BR "Last two digits of current year" .
\fByr\fR is in actuality
the number of years since 1900. To correctly obtain the last two digits of
the current year through the year 2099, the definition given below of string
register
.B yy
may be included in a document and subsequently used to
display a two-digit year. Note that any other available one- or
two-character register name may be substituted for \fByy\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.\e" definition of new string register yy--last two digits of year
\&.\e" use yr (# of years since 1900) if it is < 100
\&.ie \en(yr<100 .ds yy \en(yr
\&.el \e{             .\e" else, subtract 100 from yr, store in ny
\&.nr ny \en(yr-100
\&.ie \en(ny>9 \e{     .\e" use ny if it is two digits
\&.ds yy \en(ny
\&.\e" remove temporary number register ny
\&.rr ny \e}
\&.el \e{.ds yy 0
\&.\e" if ny is one digit, append it to 0
\&.as yy \en(ny
\&.rr ny \e} \e}
.fi
.in -2

