'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tsort 1 "28 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tsort \- topological sort
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtsort\fR [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tsort
command produces on the standard output a totally ordered
list of items consistent with a partial ordering of items mentioned in the
input
.IR file .
.sp
.LP
The input consists of pairs of items (non-empty strings) separated by
blanks. Pairs of different items indicate ordering. Pairs of identical items
indicate presence, but not ordering.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of a text file to order. If no
.I file
operand is given, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An example of the tsort command
.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtsort <<EOF
a b c c d e
g g
f g e f
EOF\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
produces the output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR tsort :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lorder (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
.B Odd data:
there are an odd number of fields in the input file.
