'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tty 1 "11 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tty \- return user's terminal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tty\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBtty\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/tty"
.sp
.LP
The
.B tty
utility writes to the standard output the name of the
terminal that is open as standard input. The name that is used is equivalent
to the string that would be returned by the \fBttyname\fR(3C) function.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B "ksh93 tty"
built-in writes the name of the terminal that is
connected to standard input onto standard output. If the standard input is
not a terminal, "not a tty" will be written to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.SS "/usr/bin/tty"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Prints the synchronous line number to which the user's terminal is
connected, if it is on an active synchronous line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Inhibits printing of the terminal path name, allowing one to test just the
exit status.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.br
.na
.B --line-number
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Write the synchronous line number of the terminal on a separate line
following the terminal name line.  If the standard input is not a
synchronous terminal then "not on an active synchronous line" is written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--silent\fR|\fBquiet\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Disable the terminal name line. Portable applications should use [[ -t 0 ]]
instead.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR tty :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Standard input is a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Standard input is not a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
Standard\fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR isatty (3C),
.BR ttyname (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "not on an active synchronous line
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a synchronous terminal and
.B -l
is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B not a tty
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a terminal and
.B -s
is not specified.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B -s
option is useful only if the exit status is wanted. It does
not rely on the ability to form a valid path name. Portable applications
should use
.BR "test -t" .
