'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ul 1 "17 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ul \- do underlining
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBul\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIterminal\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ul
reads the named \fIfilename\fRs (or the standard input if none are
given) and translates occurrences of underscores to the sequence which
indicates underlining for the terminal in use, as specified by the
environment variable\fR
.B "TERM. ul"
uses the
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo
entry to determine the appropriate sequences
for underlining. If the terminal is incapable of underlining, but is capable
of a standout mode then that is used instead. If the terminal can
overstrike, or handles underlining automatically,
.B ul
degenerates to
.BR cat (1).
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t " terminal"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Override the terminal kind specified in the environment. If the terminal
cannot underline, underlining is ignored. If the terminal name is not found,
no underlining is attempted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Indicate underlining by a separate line containing appropriate dashes
`\fB\(mi\fR\&'; this is useful when you want to look at the underlining
which is present in an
.BR nroff (1)
output stream on a
.B CRT-terminal.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ul
returns exit code 1 if the file specified is not found.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/*
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cat (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
.B nroff
usually generates a series of backspaces and underlines
intermixed with the text to indicate underlining.
.B ul
makes attempt to
optimize the backward motion.
