'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH umask 1 "17 Sep 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
umask \- get or set the file mode creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/umask\fR [\fB-S\fR] [\fImask\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBumask\fR [\fIooo\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBumask\fR [\fIooo\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBumask\fR [\fB-S\fR] [\fImask\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBumask\fR [\fB-S\fR] [\fImask\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B umask
utility sets the file mode creation mask of the current shell
execution environment to the value specified by the
.I mask
operand. This
mask affects the initial value of the file permission bits of subsequently
created files. If
.B umask
is called in a subshell or separate utility
execution environment, such as one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
(umask 002)
nohup umask ...
find . -exec umask ...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
it does not affect the file mode creation mask of the caller's environment.
For this reason, the
.B /usr/bin/umask
utility cannot be used to change the
umask in an ongoing session. Its usefulness is limited to checking the
caller's umask. To change the umask of an ongoing session you must use one of
the shell builtins.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I mask
operand is not specified, the
.B umask
utility writes
the value of the invoking process's file mode creation mask to standard
output.
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
The user file-creation mode mask is set to
.IR ooo .
The three octal digits
refer to read/write/execute permissions for owner, group, and other,
respectively (see
.BR chmod (1),
.BR chmod (2),
and
.BR umask (2)).
The
value of each specified digit is subtracted from the corresponding ``digit''
specified by the system for the creation of a file (see
.BR creat (2)).
For
example,
.B "umask 022"
removes write permission for group and other.
Files (and directories) normally created with mode
.B 777
become mode
.BR 755 .
Files (and directories) created with mode
.B 666
become mode
.BR 644 ).
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I ooo
is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBumask\fR is recognized and executed by the shell.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBumask\fR can be included in the user's \fB\&.profile\fR (see
\fBprofile\fR(4)) and invoked at login to automatically set the user's
permissions on files or directories created.
.RE
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
See the description above for the Bourne shell (\fBsh\fR)\fBumask\fR
built-in.
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The user file-creation mask is set to
.IR mask .
\fImask\fR can either be an
octal number or a symbolic value as described in
.BR chmod (1).
If a symbolic
value is given, the new
.B umask
value is the complement of the result of
applying
.I mask
to the complement of the previous umask value. If
\fImask\fR is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
\fBumask\fR sets the file creation mask of the current shell execution
environment to the value specified by the
.B mask
operand. This mask
affects the file permission bits of subsequently created files.
.I mask
can
either be an octal number or a symbolic value as described in chmod(1). If a
symbolic value is specified, the new file creation mask is the complement of
the result of applying
.I mask
to the complement of the current file
creation mask. If
.I mask
is not specified,
.B umask
writes the value of
the file creation mask for the current process to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported for
.B /usr/bin/umask
and
.B umask
in
.BR ksh :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Produces symbolic output.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The default output style is unspecified, but will be recognized on a
subsequent invocation of
.B umask
on the same system as a
.IR mask
operand to restore the previous file mode creation mask.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported in
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Causes the file creation mask to be written or treated as a symbolic value
rather than an octal number.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mask
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A string specifying the new file mode creation mask. The string is treated in
the same way as the
.I mode
operand described in the
.BR chmod (1)
manual
page.
.sp
For a
.I symbolic_mode
value, the new value of the file mode creation mask
is the logical complement of the file permission bits portion of the file mode
specified by the
.I symbolic_mode
string.
.sp
In a
.I symbolic_mode
value, the permissions
.I op
characters
.BR +
and \fB\(mi\fR are interpreted relative to the current file mode creation
mask.
.B +
causes the bits for the indicated permissions to be cleared in
the mask. \fB\(mi\fR causes the bits of the indicated permissions to be set in
the mask.
.sp
The interpretation of
.I mode
values that specify file mode bits other
than the file permission bits is unspecified.
.sp
The file mode creation mask is set to the resulting numeric value.
.sp
The default output of a prior invocation of
.B umask
on the same system
with no operand will also be recognized as a
.I mask
operand. The use of an
operand obtained in this way is not obsolescent, even if it is an octal
number.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
When the
.I mask
operand is not specified, the
.B umask
utility will
write a message to standard output that can later be used as a
.BR umask
\fImask\fR operand.
.sp
.LP
If
.B -S
is specified, the message will be in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"u=%s,g=%s,o=%s\en", \fIowner permissions\fR, \fIgroup permissions\fR, \e
                        \fIother permissions\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where the three values will be combinations of letters from the set
\fB{\fRr\fB, w\fR, \fBx\fR}. The presence of a letter will indicate that
the corresponding bit is clear in the file mode creation mask.
.sp
.LP
If a
.I mask
operand is specified, there will be no output written to
standard output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using the \fBumask\fR Command
.sp
.LP
The examples in this section refer to the
.B /usr/bin/umask
utility and
the
.B "ksh umask"
builtin.

.sp
.LP
Either of the commands:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBumask a=rx,ug+w
umask 002\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
sets the mode mask so that subsequently created files have their
\fBS_IWOTH\fR bit cleared.

.sp
.LP
After setting the mode mask with either of the above commands, the
\fBumask\fR command can be used to write the current value of the mode mask:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBumask\fR
0002
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The output format is unspecified, but historical implementations use the
obsolescent octal integer mode format.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBumask -S\fR
u=rwx,g=rwx,o=rx
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Either of these outputs can be used as the mask operand to a subsequent
invocation of the
.B umask
utility.

.sp
.LP
Assuming the mode mask is set as above, the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBumask g-w\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
sets the mode mask so that subsequently created files have their
\fBS_IWGRP\fR and \fBS_IWOTH\fR bits cleared.

.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBumask --w\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
sets the mode mask so that subsequently created files have all their write
bits cleared. Notice that
.I mask
operands
.BR r ,
.BR w ,
.BR x ,
or
anything beginning with a hyphen (\fB\(mi\fR), must be preceded by
.B -
to
keep it from being interpreted as an option.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of
.BR umask :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The file mode creation mask was successfully changed, or no \fImask\fR
operand was supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/umask, csh, ksh, sh"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR chmod (2),
.BR creat (2),
.BR umask (2),
\fBprofile\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
