'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uname 1 "17 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uname \- print name of current system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuname\fR [\fB-aimnprsvX\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuname\fR [\fB-S\fR \fIsystem_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uname
utility prints information about the current system on the
standard output. When options are specified, symbols representing one or
more system characteristics will be written to the standard output. If no
options are specified,
.B uname
prints the current operating system's
name. The options print selected information returned by
.BR uname (2),
.BR sysinfo (2),
or both.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints basic information currently available from the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the name of the platform.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the machine hardware name (class). Use of this option is
discouraged. Use
.B "uname -p"
instead. See NOTES section below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the nodename (the nodename is the name by which the system is known
to a communications network).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the current host's
.B ISA
or processor type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the operating system release level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the name of the operating system. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.I system_name
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The nodename may be changed by specifying a system name argument. The
system name argument is restricted to
.B SYS_NMLN
characters.
.B SYS_NMLN
is an implementation specific value defined in
\fB<sys/utsname.h>\fR\&. Only the super-user is allowed this capability.
This change does not persist across reboots of the system. Use
.BR sys-unconfig (1M)
to change a host's name permanently.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints the operating system version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -X
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Prints expanded system information, one information element per line, as
expected by SCO UNIX. The displayed information includes:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
system name, node, release, version, machine, and number of CPUs.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
BusType, Serial, and Users (set to "unknown" in Solaris)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
OEM# and Origin# (set to
.B 0
and
.BR 1 ,
respectively)
.RE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Printing the OS name and release level
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuname \(misr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints the operating system name and release level, separated by one SPACE
character.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR uname :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SYSV3
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
This variable is used to override the default behavior of
.BR uname .
This
is necessary to make it possible for some INTERACTIVE UNIX Systems and SCO
UNIX programs and scripts to work properly. Many scripts use
.B uname
to
determine the
.B SYSV3
type or the version of the
.B OS
to ensure
software is compatible with that
.BR OS .
Setting
.B SYSV3
to an empty
string will make
.B uname
print the following default values:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
nodename nodename 3.2 2 i386
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The individual elements that
.B uname
displays can also be modified by
setting
.B SYSV3
in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIos,sysname,node,rel,ver,mach\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I os
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Operating system (IUS or SCO).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sysname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
System name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I node
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Nodename as displayed by the
.B -n
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rel
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Release level as displayed by the
.B -r
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ver
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Version number as displayed by the
.B -v
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mach
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Machine name as displayed by
.B -m
option.
.RE

Do not put spaces between the elements.  If an element is omitted, the
current system value will be used.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR arch (1),
.BR isalist (1),
.BR sys-unconfig (1M),
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR uname (2),
.BR nodename (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Independent software vendors
.RB ( ISV s)
and others who need to determine
detailed characteristics of the platform on which their software is either
being installed or executed should use the
.B uname
command.
.sp
.LP
To determine the operating system name and release level, use \fBuname
.BR -sr .
To determine only the operating system release level, use
.BR "uname -r" .
Notice that operating system release levels are not
guaranteed to be in
.I x.y
format (such as 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and so forth);
future releases could be in the
.I x.y.z
format (such as 5.3.1, 5.3.2,
5.4.1, and so forth).
.sp
.LP
In SunOS 4.\fIx\fR releases, the
.BR arch (1)
command was often used to
obtain information similar to that obtained by using the
.BR uname
command. The \fBarch\fR(1) command output "sun4" was often incorrectly
interpreted to signify a SunOS SPARC system. If hardware platform
information is desired, use
.BR "uname -sp" .
.sp
.LP
The
.B "arch -k"
and
.B "uname -m"
commands return equivalent
values; however, the use of either of these commands by third party programs
is discouraged, as is the use of the
.B arch
command in general. To
determine the machine's Instruction Set Architecture (\fBISA\fR or processor
type), use
.B uname
with the
.B -p
option.
