'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH unifdef 1 "14 Jan 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
unifdef \- resolve and remove ifdef'ed lines from C program source
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunifdef\fR [\fB-clt\fR] [\fB-D\fIname\fR] [\fB-U\fIname\fR] [\fB-iD\fIname\fR] [\fB-iU\fIname\fR] ...
     [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B unifdef
removes
.BR ifdef ed
lines from a file while otherwise leaving
the file alone. It is smart enough to deal with the nested
.BR ifdef s,
comments, single and double quotes of C syntax, but it does not do any
including or interpretation of macros. Neither does it strip out comments,
though it recognizes and ignores them. You specify which symbols you want
defined with
.B -D
options, and which you want undefined with
.B -U
options. Lines within those
.BR ifdef s
will be copied to the output, or
removed, as appropriate. Any
.BR ifdef ,
.BR ifndef ,
.BR else ,
and
.B endif
lines associated with
.I filename
will also be removed.
.sp
.LP
\fBifdef\fRs involving symbols you do not specify are untouched and copied out
along with their associated
.BR ifdef ,
.BR else ,
and
.B endiff1
lines.
.sp
.LP
If an \fBifdef\fIX\fR occurs nested inside another \fBifdef\fIX\fR, then
the inside
.B ifdef
is treated as if it were an unrecognized symbol. If the
same symbol appears in more than one argument, only the first occurrence is
significant.
.sp
.LP
.B unifdef
copies its output to the standard output and will take its input
from the standard input if no
.I filename
argument is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Complement the normal operation. Lines that would have been removed or blanked
are retained, and vice versa.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Replace ``lines removed'' lines with blank lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Plain text option.
.B unifdef
refrains from attempting to recognize
comments and single and double quotes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -D name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Lines associated with the defined symbol
.IR name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -U name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Lines associated with the undefined symbol
.IR name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -iD name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Ignore, but print out, lines associated with the defined symbol
.IR name .
If
you use
.BR ifdef s
to delimit non-C lines, such as comments or code which is
under construction, then you must tell
.B unifdef
which symbols are used for
that purpose so that it will not try to parse for quotes and comments within
them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -iU name
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Ignore, but print out, lines associated with the undefined symbol
.IR name .
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR diff (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Premature EOF
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Inappropriate
.B else
or
.BR endif .
.RE

