'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uniq 1 "13 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uniq \- report or filter out repeated lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/uniq"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/uniq\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-d\fR | \fB-u\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfields\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIchar\fR]
     [\fIinput_file\fR [\fIoutput_file\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/uniq\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-d\fR | \fB-u\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [+ \fIm\fR] [\fIinput_file\fR [\fIoutput_file\fR]]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBuniq\fR [\fB-cdiu\fR] [\fB-D\fR[\fIdelimit\fR]] [\fB-f\fR \fIfields\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIchars\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIchars\fR]
     [\fIinput_file\fR [\fIoutput_file\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuniq\fR [\fB-cdiu\fR] [\fB-D\fR[\fIdelimit\fR]] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB+m\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIchars\fR] [\fIinput_file\fR [\fIoutput_file\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/uniq"
.sp
.LP
The
.B uniq
utility reads an input file comparing adjacent lines and
writes one copy of each input line on the output. The second and succeeding
copies of repeated adjacent input lines are not written.
.sp
.LP
Repeated lines in the input are not detected if they are not adjacent.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B uniq
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.B /bin
or
.BR "/usr/bin path" .
It is invoked when
.B uniq
is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/uniq
or
.B /usr/bin/uniq
executable.
.sp
.LP
.B uniq
reads an input, comparing adjacent lines, and writing one copy
of each input line on the output. The second and succeeding copies of the
repeated adjacent lines are not written.
.sp
.LP
If
.I output_file
is not specified,
.B uniq
writes to standard
output. If \fIinput_file\fR is not specified, or if \fIinput_file\fR is
.BR - ,
.B uniq
reads from standard input, and the start of the file is
defined as the current offset.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/uniq"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR /usr/bin/uniq :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Precedes each output line with a count of the number of times the line
occurred in the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Suppresses the writing of lines that are not repeated in the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I fields
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Ignores the first
.I fields
fields on each input line when doing
comparisons, where
.I fields
is a positive decimal integer. A field is
the maximal string matched by the basic regular expression:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[[:blank:]]*[^[:blank:]]*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If
.I fields
specifies more fields than appear on an input line, a null
string is used for comparison.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIm\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Equivalent to
.B -s
.I chars
with
.I chars
set to
.IR m .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Equivalent to \fB-f\fR \fIfields\fR with \fIfields\fR set to
.IR n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I chars
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Ignores the first
.I chars
characters when doing comparisons, where
.I chars
is a positive decimal integer. If specified in conjunction with
the \fB-f\fR option, the first \fIchars\fR characters after the first
.I fields
fields is ignored. If
.I chars
specifies more characters
than remain on an input line, a null string is used for comparison.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Suppresses the writing of lines that are repeated in the input.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the
.B uniq
built-in command is
.BR ksh93 :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.br
.na
.B --count
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Outputs the number of times each line occurred along with the line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.br
.na
.B --repeated | duplicates
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Outputs only duplicate lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -D
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--all-repeated\fR[\fB=\fIdelimit\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Outputs all duplicate lines as a group with an empty line delimiter
specified by
.IR delimit .
.sp
Specify
.I delimit
as one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B none
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Do not delimit duplicate groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B prepend
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Prepend an empty line before each group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B separate
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Separate each group with an empty line.
.RE

The value for
.I delimit
can be omitted. The default value is
.BR none .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--skip-fields=\fIfields\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Skips over
.I fields
number of fields before checking for uniqueness. A
field is the minimal string matching the \fBBRE
[[:\fIblank\fB:]]*[^[:\fIblank\fB:]]*\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.br
.na
.B --ignore-case
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Ignore case in comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB+\fIm\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Equivalent to the
.B -s
.I chars
option, with
.I chars
set to
.IR m .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Equivalent to the \fB-f\fR \fIfields\fR option, with \fIfields\fR set to
.IR n .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--skip-chars=\fIchars\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Skips over
.I chars
number of characters before checking for uniqueness.

.sp
If specified with the \fB-f\fR option, the first \fIchars\fR after the
first fields are ignored. If the
.I chars
specifies more characters than
are on the line, an empty string is used for comparison.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -u
.ad
.br
.na
.B --uniq
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Outputs unique lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.br
.na
\fB--check-chars=\fIchars\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Skips over any specified fields and characters, then compares \fIchars\fR
number of characters.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input_file
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A path name of the input file. If
.I input_file
is not specified, or if
the \fIinput_file\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output_file
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A path name of the output file. If
.I output_file
is not specified, the
standard output is used. The results are unspecified if the file named by
.I output_file
is the file named by \fIinput_file\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the
.B uniq
Command
.sp
.LP
The following example lists the contents of the
.B uniq.test
file and
outputs a copy of the repeated lines.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat uniq.test\fR
This is a test.
This is a test.
TEST.
Computer.
TEST.
TEST.
Software.

example% \fBuniq -d uniq.test\fR
This is a test.
TEST.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next example outputs just those lines that are not repeated in the
.B uniq.test
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuniq -u uniq.test\fR
TEST.
Computer.
Software.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The last example outputs a report with each line preceded by a count of the
number of times each line occurred in the file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuniq -c uniq.test\fR
   2 This is a test.
   1 TEST.
   1 Computer.
   2 TEST.
   1 Software.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR uniq :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/uniq"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR comm (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
,
.BR pcat (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR uncompress (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
