'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH units 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
units \- converts quantities expressed in standard scales to other scales
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunits\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B units
converts quantities expressed in various standard scales to
their equivalents in other scales. It works interactively in this fashion:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
You have:~~\fBinch\fR
You want:~~\fBcm\fR
        * 2.540000e+00
/ 3.937008e\(mi01
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A quantity is specified as a multiplicative combination of units optionally
preceded by a numeric multiplier. Powers are indicated by suffixed positive
integers, division by the usual sign:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
You have:~~\fB15 lbs force/in2\fR
You want:~~\fBatm\fR
        * 1.020689e+00
        / 9.797299e\(mi01
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.B units
only does multiplicative scale changes; thus it can convert
Kelvin to Rankine, but not Celsius to Fahrenheit. Most familiar units,
abbreviations, and metric prefixes are recognized, together with a generous
leavening of exotica and a few constants of nature including:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pi
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
ratio of circumference to diameter,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
speed of light,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B e
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
charge on an electron,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B g
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
acceleration of gravity,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B force
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
same as
.BR g ,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mole
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Avogadro's number,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B water
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
pressure head per unit height of water,
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B au
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
astronomical unit.
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B Pound
is not recognized as a unit of mass;
.B lb
is. Compound
names are run together, (for example,
.BR lightyear ).
British units that
differ from their U.S. counterparts are prefixed thus:
.BR brgallon .
For a
complete list of units, type:
.sp
.LP
.B cat /usr/share/lib/unittab
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/share/lib/unittab
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
