'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH unix2dos 1 "14 Sep 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
unix2dos \- convert text file from ISO format to DOS format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunix2dos\fR [\fB-ascii\fR] [\fB-iso\fR] [\fB-7\fR]
     [\fB-437\fR | \fB-850\fR | \fB-860\fR | \fB-863\fR | \fB-865\fR] \fIoriginalfile\fR \fIconvertedfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B unix2dos
utility converts
.B ISO
standard characters to the
corresponding characters in the
.B DOS
extended character set.
.sp
.LP
This command may be invoked from either
.B DOS
or SunOS. However, the
filenames must conform to the conventions of the environment in which the
command is invoked.
.sp
.LP
If the original file and the converted file are the same,
.B unix2dos
will rewrite the original file after converting it.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -ascii
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Adds carriage returns and converts end of file characters in SunOS format
text files to conform to
.B DOS
requirements.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -iso
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
This is the default. Converts
.B ISO
standard characters to the
corresponding character in the
.B DOS
extended character set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -7
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Converts 8 bit SunOS characters to 7 bit
.B DOS
characters.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On non-i386 systems,
.B unix2dos
will attempt to obtain the keyboard
type to determine which code page to use. Otherwise, the default is US. The
user may override the code page with one of the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -437
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Use US code page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -850
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Use multilingual code page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -860
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Use Portuguese code page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -863
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Use French Canadian code page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -865
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Use Danish code page
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I originalfile
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The original file in
.B ISO
format that is being converted to
.BR DOS
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I convertedfile
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The new file in
.B DOS
format that has been converted from the original
.B ISO
file format.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dos2unix (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "File " filename
not found, or no read permission\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The input file you specified does not exist, or you do not have read
permission. Check with the SunOS command,
.B "ls -l"
(see
.BR ls (1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBBad output filename
.IR filename ,
or no write permission\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The output file you specified is either invalid, or you do not have write
permission for that file or the directory that contains it. Check also that
the drive or diskette is not write-protected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Error while writing to temporary file
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred while converting your file, possibly because there is not
enough space on the current drive. Check the amount of space on the current
drive using the
.B DIR
command. Also be certain that the default diskette
or drive is write-enabled (not write-protected). Notice that when this error
occurs, the original file remains intact.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTranslated tmpfile name = \fIfilename\fR.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBCould not rename tmpfile to \fIfilename\fR.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The program could not perform the final step in converting your file. Your
converted file is stored under the name indicated on the second line of this
message.
.RE

