'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uptime 1 "18 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uptime \- show how long the system has been up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuptime\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uptime
command prints the current time, the length of time the
system has been up, and the average number of jobs in the run queue over the
last 1, 5 and 15 minutes. It is, essentially,  the first line of a
.BR w (1)
command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
Below is an example of the output
.B uptime
provides:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% uptime
10:47am  up 27 day(s), 50 mins,  1 user,  load average: 0.18, 0.26, 0.20\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR w (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR whodo (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B who -b
gives the time the system was last booted.
