'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vacation 1 "20 Aug 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vacation \- reply to mail automatically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvacation\fR [\fB-I\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvacation\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIalias\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIfilter_file\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIdatabase_file\fR]
     [\fB-j\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImessage_file\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsender\fR] [\fB-t\fIN\fR] \fIusername\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvacation\fR [\fB-f database_file\fR] \fB-l\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B vacation
utility automatically replies to incoming mail.
.SS "Installation"
.sp
.LP
The installation consists of an interactive program which sets up
.BR vacation 's
basic configuration.
.sp
.LP
To install
.BR vacation ,
type it with no arguments on the command line.
The program creates a
.B \&.vacation.msg
file, which contains the message
that is automatically sent to all senders when
.B vacation
is enabled, and
starts an editor for you to modify the message. (See USAGE section.) Which
editor is invoked is determined by the
.B VISUAL
or
.BR EDITOR
environment variable, or
.BR vi (1)
if neither of those environment
variables are set.
.sp
.LP
A
.B \&.forward
file is also created if one does not exist in your home
directory. Once created, the
.B \&.forward
file will contain a line of the
form:
.sp
.LP
One copy of an incoming message is sent to the
.I username
and another
copy is piped into
.BR vacation :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\e\fIusername\fR, "|/usr/bin/vacation \fIusername\fR"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If a
.B \&.forward
file is present in your home directory, it will ask
whether you want to remove it, which disables
.B vacation
and ends the
installation.
.sp
.LP
The program automatically creates
.B \&.vacation.pag
and
.BR \&.vacation.dir ,
which contain a list of senders when
.B vacation
is
enabled.
.SS "Activation and Deactivation"
.sp
.LP
The presence of the
.B \&.forward
file determines whether or not
.B vacation
is disabled or enabled. To disable
.BR vacation ,
remove the
.B
\&.forward \c
file, or move it to a new name.
.SS "Initialization"
.sp
.LP
The
.B -I
option clears the
.B vacation
log files,
.B
\&.vacation.pag \c
and
.BR \&.vacation.dir ,
erasing the list of senders
from a previous
.B vacation
session. (See OPTIONS section.)
.SS "Additional Configuration"
.sp
.LP
.B vacation
provides configuration options that are not part of the
installation, these being
.BR -a ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -j ,
.BR -m ,
.BR -s ,
and
.BR -t .
(See OPTIONS section.)
.SS "Reporting"
.sp
.LP
.B vacation
provides a reporting option,
.BR -l .
See
.BR OPTIONS .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -I
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Initializes the \fB\&.vacation.pag\fR and \fB\&.vacation.dir\fR files and
enables
.BR vacation .
If the
.B -I
flag is not specified, and a
.I user
argument is given,
.B vacation
reads the first line from the
standard input (for a
.B From:
line, no colon). If absent, it produces an
error message.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Options
.BR -a ,
.BR -e ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -j ,
.BR -m ,
.BR -s ,
and
.B -t
are configuration options to be used in conjunction with
.B vacation
in the \fB\&.forward\fR file, not on the command line. For
example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\e\fIusername\fR, "|/usr/bin/vacation \fB-t1m\fR \fIusername\fR"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
repeats replies to the sender every minute.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I alias
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Indicates that
.I alias
is one of the valid aliases for the user running
.BR vacation ,
so that mail addressed to that alias generates a reply.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I filter_file
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Uses
.I filter_file
instead of \fB\&.vacation.filter\fR as the source of
the domain and email address filters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.I database_file
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Uses
.I database_file
instead of \fB\&.vacation\fR as the base name for
the database file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Does not check whether the recipient appears in the
.B To:
or the
.B Cc:
line. Warning: use of this option can result in vacation replies
being sent to mailing lists and other inappropriate places; its use is
therefore strongly discouraged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.I message_file
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Uses
.BI ~/ message_file
as the message to send for the reply instead
of
.BR ~/.vacation.msg .
.I message_file
is a relative path to the
desired vacation message file. To prevent directory/file "not found" errors,
.I message_file
should be on the same disk partition as
.BR ~/.forward .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I sender
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Replies to
.I sender
instead of the value read from the UNIX
.BR From
line of the incoming message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t N
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Changes the interval between repeat replies to the same sender. The default
is 1 week. A trailing
.BR s ,
.BR m ,
.BR h ,
.BR d ,
or
.B w
scales
.I N
to seconds, minutes, hours, days, or weeks, respectively.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B -l
option is neither for initialization nor configuration., but
for reporting. The
.BR -f option
can also be used in conjunction with the
.BR -l .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
 Lists the addresses to which a reply has been sent since the last invocation
of
.BR "vacation -I" ,
along with a date and time stamp.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
\fB\&.vacation.msg\fR should include a header with at least a \fBSubject:\fR
line (it should not include a
.B To:
line). For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSubject: I am on vacation
I am on vacation until July 22.  If you have something urgent,
please contact Joe Jones (jones@fB0).
   	--John\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the string
.B $SUBJECT
appears in the \fB\&.vacation.msg\fR file, it
is replaced with the subject of the original message when the reply is sent.
Thus, a \fB\&.vacation.msg\fR file such as
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSubject: I am on vacation
I am on vacation until July 22.
Your mail regarding "$SUBJECT" will be read when I return.
If you have something urgent, please contact
Joe Jones (jones@fB0).
   	--John\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will include the subject of the message in the reply.
.sp
.LP
No message is sent if the
.B To:
or the
.B Cc:
line does not list the
user to whom the original message was sent or one of a number of aliases for
them, if the initial
.B From
line includes the string
.BR \(miREQUEST@ ,
or if a
.B "Precedence: bulk"
.B "or Precedence:" junk
line is included in the header.
.sp
.LP
.B vacation
will also not respond to mail from either
.B postmaster
or
.BR Mailer-Daemon .
.sp
.LP
In addition to the above criteria, if a \fB\&.vacation.filter\fR file
exists, it is used to constrain further the set of addresses to which a reply
is sent. Each line in that file should be either a domain name, an email
address, a negated domain name or a negated email address. A negated line
starts with the single character
.BR ! .
.sp
.LP
Each line is compared in the order listed to the sender address. A line
containing an email address matches if the sender address is exactly the same
except for case, which is ignored.  A line containing a domain name matches
if the sender address is \fIsomething\fB@\fIdomain-name\fR or
\fIsomething\fB@\fIsomething.domain-name\fR. A reply is sent if the
first match is an entry that is not negated. If the first match is a negated
entry, or if no lines match, then no reply is sent.
.sp
.LP
A sample filter file might look like the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
!host.subdomain.sun.com
sun.com
!wife@mydomain.com
mydomain.com
onefriend@hisisp.com
anotherfriend@herisp.com
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Blank lines and lines starting with  "\fB#\fR" are ignored.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B ~/.forward
.sp
.LP
.B ~/.vacation.filter
.sp
.LP
.B ~/.vacation.msg
.sp
.LP
A list of senders is kept in the
.B dbm
format files
\fB\&.vacation.pag\fR and \fB\&.vacation.dir\fR in your home directory. These
files are
.B dbm
files and cannot be viewed directly with text editors.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsndmu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR vi (1),
.BR sendmail (1M),
.BR dbm (3UCB),
.BR getusershell (3C),
.BR aliases (4),
.BR shells (4),
.BR attributes (5)
