'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.TH vgrind 1 "3 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vgrind \- grind nice program listings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvgrind\fR [\fB-2fntwx\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefs-file\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIheader\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlanguage\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR \fIn\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIpagelist\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprinter\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIoutput-device\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B vgrind
utility formats the program sources named by the
\fIfilename\fR arguments in a nice style using
.BR troff (1).
Comments are
placed in italics, keywords in bold face, and as each function is
encountered its name is listed on the page margin.
.sp
.LP
\fBvgrind\fR runs in two basic modes, filter mode or regular mode. In
filter mode,
.B vgrind
acts as a filter in a manner similar to
.BR tbl (1).
The standard input is passed directly to the standard output
except for lines bracketed by the \fBtroff\fR-like macros:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.vS\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
starts processing
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\&.vE\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
ends processing
.RE

.sp
.LP
These lines are formatted as described above. The output from this filter
can be passed to \fBtroff\fR for output. There need be no particular
ordering with
.BR eqn (1)
or
.BR tbl (1).
.sp
.LP
In regular mode,
.B vgrind
accepts input \fIfilename\fRs, processes
them, and passes them to \fBtroff\fR for output. Use a hyphen
(`\fB\(mi\fR\&') to specify standard input; otherwise, \fBvgrind\fR will
exit without attempting to read from the standard input. Filenames must be
specified after all other option arguments.
.sp
.LP
In regular mode, if the
.B -t
or
.B -P
option is specified, the
output is:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
emitted (in \fBtroff\fR format) to stdout if the
.B -t
option is
specified.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
printed (as PostScript) to the named printer if the
.B -P
option is
specified.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Otherwise, the output is:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
printed (as PostScript) on the system default printer, if one is defined,
and the command's stdout is a tty.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
emitted (as PostScript) to stdout if it is not a tty (that is, if stdout is
a pipe or a redirect to a file).
.RE
.sp
.LP
In both modes,
.B vgrind
passes any lines beginning with a decimal point
without conversion.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -2
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Produces two-column output. Specifying this option changes the default
point size to 8 (as if the
.B -s8
option were supplied). It also arranges
for output to appear in landscape mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Forces filter mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Does not make keywords boldface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Considers TAB characters to be spaced four columns apart instead of the
usual eight.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Outputs the index file in a "pretty" format. The index file itself is
produced whenever
.B vgrind
is run with a file called
.B index
that is
present in the current directory. The index of function definitions can then
be run off by giving
.B vgrind
the
.B -x
option and the file
\fBindex\fR as argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIdefs-file\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies an alternate language definitions file (default is
.BR /usr/lib/vgrindefs ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-h\fR \fIheader\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies a header to appear in the center of every output page. Use quotes
to specify headers with embedded spaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-l\fR \fIlanguage\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies the language to use. Among the \fIlanguage\fRs currently known
are: Bourne shell
.RB ( -lsh ),
C (\fB-lc\fR, the default), C++
(\fB-lc++\fR), C shell
.RB ( -lcsh ),
emacs MLisp
.RB ( -lml ),
FORTRAN
(\fB-lf\fR), Icon
.RB ( -lI ),
ISP
.RB ( -i ),
LDL
.RB ( -lLDL ),
Model
(\fB-lm\fR), Pascal
.RB ( -lp ),
and RATFOR
.RB ( -lr ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIprinter\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Sends output to the named
.IR printer .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Specifies a point size to use on output (exactly the same as the argument
of a \fBtroff\fR \fB\&.ps\fR point size request).
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBvgrind\fR passes the following options to the formatter specified by the
\fBTROFF\fR environment variable. See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Similar to the same option in
.BR troff ;
that is, formatted text goes to
the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIpagelist\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Prints only those pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
\fIpagelist\fR of numbers and ranges. A range \fIN\(miM\fR means pages
\fIN\fR through
.IR M ;
an initial
.B -N
means from the beginning to
page
.IR N ;
and a final \fIN\fR\(mi means from
.I N
to the end.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-T\fR \fIoutput-device\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Formats output for the specified
.IR output-device .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfilename\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Name of the program source to be processed by
.BR vgrind .
Use
`\fB\(mi\fR\&' to specify the standard input.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
In regular mode,
.B vgrind
feeds its intermediate output to the text
formatter given by the value of the
.B TROFF
environment variable, or to
\fB/usr/bin/troff\fR if this variable is not defined in the environment.
This mechanism allows for local variations in \fBtroff\fR's name.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B index
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file where source for index is created
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/vgrindefs\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
language descriptions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/vfontedpr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
preprocessor
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.vgrind
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
macro package
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR ctags (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR vgrindefs (5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
\fBvgrind\fR assumes that a certain programming style is followed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B C
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Function names can be preceded on a line only by SPACE, TAB, or an asterisk
(\fB*\fR). The parenthesized arguments must also be on the same line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FORTRAN
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords
\fBfunction\fR or \fBsubroutine\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MLisp
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Function names should not appear on the same line as the preceding
.BR defun .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Model
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords \fBis
beginproc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Pascal
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords
\fBfunction\fR or \fBprocedure\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If these conventions are not followed, the indexing and marginal function
name comment mechanisms will fail.
.sp
.LP
More generally, arbitrary formatting styles for programs usually give
unsightly results. To prepare a program for
.B vgrind
output, use TAB
rather than SPACE characters to align source code properly, since
\fBvgrind\fR uses variable width fonts.
.sp
.LP
The mechanism of
.BR ctags (1)
in recognizing functions should be used
here.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -w
option is annoying, but there is no other way to achieve the
desired effect.
.sp
.LP
The macros defined in
.B tmac.vgrind
do not coexist gracefully with
those of other macro packages, making filter mode difficult to use
effectively.
.sp
.LP
\fBvgrind\fR does not process certain special characters in \fBcsh\fR(1)
scripts correctly.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tmac.vgrind
formatting macros wire in the page height and width
used in two-column mode, effectively making two column output useless for
paper sizes other than the standard American size of 8.5 inches by 11
inches. For other paper sizes, it is necessary to edit the size values given
in
.BR tmac.vgrind .
A better solution would be to create a \fBtroff\fR
output device specification intended specifically for landscape output and
record size information there.
