'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH volcheck 1 "28 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
volcheck \- checks for media in a drive and by default checks all floppy
media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolcheck\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIsecs\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIsecs\fR] \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B volcheck
utility tells volume management to look at each
.BI dev/ pathname
in sequence and determine if new media has been
inserted in the drive.
.sp
.LP
The default action is to
.B volcheck
all checkable media managed by
volume management.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.I secs
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the frequency of device checking to
.I secs
seconds.  The default is
2 seconds.  The minimum frequency is 1 second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -t " secs"
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Check the named device(s) for the next
.I secs
seconds.  The maximum
number of seconds allowed is 28800, which is 8 hours. The frequency of
checking is specified by
.BR -i .
There is no default total time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Verbose.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pathname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The path name of a media device.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample of the
.B volcheck
command.
.sp
.LP
The following example

.sp
.in +2
.nf
        example% volcheck \(miv /dev/diskette
        /dev/diskette has media
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
asks volume management to examine the floppy drive for new media.

.sp
.LP
The following example

.sp
.in +2
.nf
        example% volcheck \(mii 2 \(mit 600 /dev/diskette1 &
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
asks volume management if there is a floppy in the floppy drive every 2
seconds for 600 seconds (10 minutes).

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/volctl
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
volume management control port
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvolu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR eject (1),
.BR rmmount (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Due to a hardware limitation in many floppy drives, the act of checking for
media causes mechanical action in the floppy drive.   \fBContinuous polling of the floppy drive will cause the drive to wear out.\fR It is recommended
that polling the drive only be performed during periods of high use.
