'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH volrmmount 1 "28 Feb 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
volrmmount \- call rmmount to mount or unmount media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolrmmount\fR [\fB-i\fR | \fB-e\fR] [\fIname\fR | \fInickname\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvolrmmount\fR [\fB-d\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B volrmmount
utility calls \fBrmmount\fR(1M) to, in effect,
simulate an insertion (\fB-i\fR) or an ejection
.RB ( -e ).
Simulating an
insertion often means that
.B rmmount
will mount the media. Conversely,
simulating an ejection often means that
.B rmmount
will unmount the
.RB "media. However, these actions can vary depending on the" " rmmount"
configuration and media type.
.sp
.LP
For example, using default settings, if you insert a music CD, it might not
be mounted. However, you can configure
.B rmmount
so that it calls
.B workman
whenever a music CD is inserted.
.sp
.LP
This command allows you to override volume management's usual handling of
media (see EXAMPLES below).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Simulates an insertion of the specified media by calling
.BR rmmount .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Simulates an ejection of the specified media by calling
.BR rmmount .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Displays the name of the default device for
.B volrmmount
to handle.
This device is used if no
.I name
or
.I nickname
is supplied.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name that volume management recognizes as the device's name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nickname
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A shortened version of the device's name. Following is the list of
recognized nicknames:
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
NicknamePath
_
fd/dev/rdiskette
_
fd0/dev/rdiskette
_
fd1/dev/rdiskette1
_
diskette/dev/rdiskette
_
diskette0/dev/rdiskette0
_
diskette1/dev/rdiskette1
_
rdiskette/dev/rdiskette
_
rdiskette0/dev/rdiskette0
_
rdiskette1/dev/rdiskette1
_
floppy/dev/rdiskette
_
floppy0/dev/rdiskette0
_
floppy1/dev/rdiskette1
_
cdrom0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
zip0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
jaz0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
rmdisk0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using the volrmmount command
.sp
.LP
When volume management finds a floppy that contains a filesystem, it calls
.B rmmount
to mount it. If you wish to run
.BR tar (1)
or
.BR cpio (1)
on that floppy, it must first be unmounted. To unmount the floppy use:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBvolrmmount \(mie floppy0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
After
.B volrmmount
unmounts the floppy, if you wish to re-mount it
(rather than ejecting it and reinserting it) use:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBvolrmmount \(mii floppy0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Notice that if you are using a named floppy, you can use its name in place
of
.BR floppy0 .

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/volctl
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
volume management control port
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWvolu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cpio (1),
.BR eject (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR rmmount (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
