'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wc 1 "13 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wc \- display a count of lines, words and characters in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.LP
.nf
\fBwc\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-m\fR | \fB-C\fR] [\fB-lw\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBwc\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-m\fR | \fB-C\fR] [\fB-lLqw\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR reads one or more input files and, by default, writes the number
of NEWLINE characters, words and bytes contained in each input file to the
standard output.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR also writes a total count for all named files, if more than one
input file is specified.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR considers a \fIword\fR to be a non-zero-length string of
characters delimited by white space (for example,
.BR SPACE ,
.BR TAB ).
See \fBiswspace\fR(3C) or \fBisspace\fR(3C).
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The
.B wc
built-in in
.B ksh93
is associated with the
.B /bin
and
\fB/usr/bin\fR paths. It is invoked when \fBwc\fR is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.B /bin/wc
or
\fB/usr/bin/wc\fR executable.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR reads one or more input files and, by default, for each file
writes a line containing the number of NEWLINEs, words, and bytes contained
in each file followed by the file name to standard output in that order. A
word is defined to be a
.B non-zero
length string delimited by
.BR isspace (3C)
characters.
.sp
.LP
If more than one file is specified,
.B wc
writes a total count for all
of the named files with total written instead of the file name.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B wc
writes all three counts. Options can specified so that
only certain counts are written. The
.BR -c ,
.BR -C ,
and
.BR -m
options are mutually exclusive.
.sp
.LP
If no file is specified, or if the file is
.BR - ,
\fBwc\fR reads from
standard input and no filename is written to standard output. The start of
the file is defined as the current offset.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.br
.na
.B --bytes | chars
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the byte counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.br
.na
.B --lines
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the line counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.br
.na
.B --longest-line | max-line-length
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the longest line length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m | C
.ad
.br
.na
.B --multibyte-chars
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the character counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.br
.na
.B --quiet
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress invalid multi-byte character warnings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.br
.na
.B --words
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the word counts.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Counts bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Same as
.BR -m .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Counts lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Counts characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Counts words delimited by white space characters or new line characters.
Delimiting characters are Extended Unix Code (\fBEUC\fR) characters from any
code set defined by
.BR iswspace() .
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no option is specified, the default is
.B -lwc
(counts lines, words,
and bytes.)
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfile\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A path name of an input file. If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B wc
when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR wc :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ksh93
built-in binding to
.B /bin
and
.B /usr/bin
is
Volatile. The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cksum (1),
.BR ksh93 (1),
.BR isspace (3C),
.BR iswalpha (3C),
.BR iswspace (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
