'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH what 1 "30 Sep 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
what \- extract SCCS version information from a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhat\fR [\fB-s\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B what
utility searches each \fIfilename\fR for occurrences of the
pattern
.B @(#)
that the
.B "SCCS get"
command (see
.BR sccs-get (1))
substitutes for the
.B @(#)
ID keyword, and prints
what follows up to a \fB"\fR, \fB>\fR, \fBNEWLINE\fR, \fB\e\fR, or
\fBNULL\fR character.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Stops after the first occurrence of the pattern.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Extracting SCCS version information
.sp
.LP
If a C program in file
.B program.c
contains

.sp
.in +2
.nf
char sccsid[\|] = "\|@(#)identification information\|";
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and
.B program.c
is compiled to yield
.B program.o
and
.BR a.out ,
the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBwhat program.c program.o a.out\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
produces:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBprogram.c\fR:\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
identification information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBprogram.o\fR:\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
identification information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBa.out\fR:\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
identification information
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Any matches were found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
No matches found.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR what :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
\fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBsccs-unget\fR(1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B "SCCS help"
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
There is a remote possibility that a spurious occurrence of the
`\fB@(#)\fR' pattern could be found by \fBwhat\fR.
