'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH whatis 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
whatis \- display a one-line summary about a keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhatis\fR \fIcommand\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B whatis
looks up a given
.I command
and displays the header line
from the manual section. You can then run the
.BR man (1)
command to get
more information. If the line starts \fBname(\fIsection\fR).\|.\|. you
can do
.B man
.BI -s section
name to get the documentation
for it.  Try
.B "whatis ed"
and then you should do
.B "man -s"
.B 1 ed
to get the manual page for
.BR ed (1).
.sp
.LP
.B whatis
is actually just the
.B -f
option to the
.BR man (1)
command.
.sp
.LP
.B whatis
uses the
.B /usr/share/man/windex
database.  This database
is created by
.BR catman (1M).
If this database does not exist,
.B whatis
will fail.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/share/man/windex
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Table of contents and keyword database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdoc
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR apropos (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR catman (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
