'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH which 1 "30 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
which \- locate a command and display its pathname or alias
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhich\fR [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B which
takes a list of names and determines which alias or utility
would be executed had these names been given as commands.
.sp
.LP
For each
.I name
operand, if it names an alias the alias is expanded.
Otherwise the user's path is searched for a utility name matching
.IR name .
Aliases are taken from the user's \fB\&.cshrc\fR file.
.I path
is taken from the current shell   execution environment.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The name of a command to be located.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
One or more
.I name
operands were not located or an error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~/.cshrc
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
source of aliases and path values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
A diagnostic is given for names which are aliased to more than a single
word, or if an executable file with the argument name was not found in the
path.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B which
utility is not a shell built-in command.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
To compensate for
.B ~/.cshrc
files in which aliases depend upon the
.B prompt
variable being set,
.B which
sets this variable to
.B NULL.
If the
.B ~/.cshrc
produces output or prompts for input when
.B prompt
is set,
.B which
can produce some strange results.
