'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH whocalls 1 "3 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
whocalls \- report on the calls to a specific procedure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhocalls\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIwholib\fR] [\fB-s\fR] \fIfuncname\fR \fIexecutable\fR
          [\fIarguments\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B whocalls
is a simple example of a utility based on the
.I Link-Auditing
functionality of
.BR ld.so.1 (1)
that permits the
tracking of a given function call. See the
.I "Linker and Libraries Guide"
for a detailed description of the
.I Link-Auditing
mechanism. The
.I executable
is run as normal with any associated arguments. Each time
the procedure
.I funcname
is called, both the arguments to that procedure
and a stack trace are displayed on standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I wholib
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies an alternate
.B who.so
.I Link-Auditing
library to use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
When available, examines and uses the \fB\&.symtab\fR symbol table for
local symbols. This is a little more expensive than using the
\fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table, but can produce more detailed stack trace
information.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Tracking Function Calls
.sp
.LP
The following example tracks the calls to
.B printf()
made by a simple
.B helloworld
program:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBwhocalls printf helloworld\fR
printf(0x106e4, 0xef625310, 0xef621ba8)
        helloworld:main+0x10
        helloworld:_start+0x5c
Hello World
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtoo
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld.so.1 (1),
.BR sotruss (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
