'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH whois 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
whois \- Internet user name directory service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhois\fR [\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR] \fIidentifier\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B whois
searches for an
.B Internet
directory entry for an
.I identifier
which is either a name (such as ``Smith'') or a handle
(such as ``SRI-NIC''). To force a name-only search, precede the name with a
period; to force a handle-only search, precede the handle with an
exclamation point.
.sp
.LP
To search for a group or organization entry, precede the argument with
.B *
(an asterisk). The entire membership list of the group will be
displayed with the record.
.sp
.LP
You may of course use an exclamation point and asterisk, or a period and
asterisk together.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using The
.B whois
Command
.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% whois Smith
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
looks for the name or handle SMITH.

.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% whois !SRI-NIC
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
looks for the handle SRI-NIC only.

.sp
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% whois .Smith, John
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
looks for the name
.B "JOHN SMITH"
only.

.sp
.LP
Adding \fB\&.\|.\|.\fR to the name or handle argument will match anything
from that point; that is, \fBZU .\|.\|.\fR will match ZUL, ZUM, and so on.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrcmdc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
