'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH write 1 "3 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
write \- write to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwrite\fR \fIuser\fR [\fIterminal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B write
utility reads lines from the user's standard input and
writes them to the terminal of another user. When first invoked, it writes
the message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Message from \fIsender-login-id\fR (\fIsending-terminal\fR) [date]...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to
.IR user .
When it has successfully completed the connection, the
sender's terminal will be alerted twice to indicate that what the sender is
typing is being written to the recipient's terminal.
.sp
.LP
If the recipient wants to reply, this can be accomplished by typing
.sp
.in +2
.nf
write \fIsender-login-id\fR [\fIsending-terminal\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
upon receipt of the initial message. Whenever a line of input as delimited
by a
.BR NL ,
.BR EOF ,
or
.B EOL
special character is accumulated
while in canonical input mode, the accumulated data will be written on the
other user's terminal. Characters are processed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the alert character will write the alert character to the
recipient's terminal.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the erase and kill characters will affect the sender's terminal in
the manner described by the
.BR termios (3C)
interface.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing the interrupt or end-of-file characters will cause
.B write
to
write an appropriate message (EOT\en in the C locale) to the recipient's
terminal and exit.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing characters from
.B LC_CTYPE
classifications
.B print
or
.B space
will cause those characters to be sent to the recipient's
terminal.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When and only when the
.B "stty iexten"
local mode is enabled,
additional special control characters and multi-byte or single-byte
characters are processed as printable characters if their wide character
equivalents are printable.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Typing other non-printable characters will cause them to be written to the
recipient's terminal as follows: control characters will appear as a
.RB ` ^ "' followed by the appropriate " ASCII " character, and characters"
with the high-order bit set will appear in "meta" notation. For example,
`\fB\e003\fR\&' is displayed as `\fB^C\fR' and `\fB\e372\fR\&' as
`\fBM\(miz\fR'.
.RE
.sp
.LP
.RI "To write to a user who is logged in more than once, the" " terminal"
argument can be used to indicate which terminal to write to. Otherwise, the
recipient's terminal is the first writable instance of the user found in
.BR /usr/adm/utmpx ,
and the following informational message will be
written to the sender's standard output, indicating which terminal was
chosen:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIuser\fR is logged on more than one place.
You are connected to \fIterminal\fR.
Other locations are:\fIterminal\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Permission to be a recipient of a
.B write
message can be denied or
granted by use of the
.B mesg
utility. However, a user's privilege may
further constrain the domain of accessibility of other users' terminals. The
.B write
utility will fail when the user lacks the appropriate privileges
to perform the requested action.
.sp
.LP
If the character
.B !
is found at the beginning of a line,
.B write
calls the shell to execute the rest of the line as a command.
.sp
.LP
.B write
runs
.B setgid()
(see
.BR setuid (2))
to the group
.BR ID
.BR tty ,
in order to have write permissions on other users' terminals.
.sp
.LP
The following protocol is suggested for using
.BR write :
when you first
.B write
to another user, wait for them to
.B write
back before
starting to send. Each person should end a message with a distinctive signal
(that is,
.B (o)
for
.IR over )
so that the other person knows when to
reply. The signal
.B (oo)
(for
.BR "over and out" )
is suggested when
conversation is to be terminated.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
User (login) name of the person to whom the message will be written. This
operand must be of the form returned by the
.BR who (1)
utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I terminal
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Terminal identification in the same format provided by the
.BR who
utility.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR write :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The addressed user is not logged on or the addressed user denies
permission.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/utmpx
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
User and accounting information for
.BR write
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/bin/sh
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Bourne shell executable file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mail (1),
.BR mesg (1),
.BR pr (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR talk (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR termios (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B user is not logged on
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The person you are trying to
.B write
to is not logged on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Permission denied
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The person you are trying to
.B write
to denies that permission (with
.BR mesg ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Warning: cannot respond, set mesg-y
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Your terminal is set to
.B "mesg n"
and the recipient cannot respond
to you.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Can no longer write to user
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The recipient has denied permission
.RB ( "mesg n" )
after you had started
writing.
.RE

