'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2020, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH xgettext 1 "27 Feb 2020" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xgettext \- extract gettext call strings from C programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B xgettext \c
.RB [ -HnPsSt "] [" "-a \c
.RB [ "-x \c
.IR exclude-file "]] [\c
.BI -c " comment-tag\c
]
.RB "     [" "-d \c
.IR default-domain "] [\c"
.BR -j "] [" -m\c
.IR " prefix" "] [\c"
.B -M \c
.IR suffix ]
.RB "     [" "-p \c
.IR pathname "] \c
.RB [ --solaris "] \c
.B -| \c
.IR filename ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
.B xgettext -h
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B xgettext
utility is used to automate the creation of portable
.RB "message files (" \&.po "). A " \&.po
file contains copies of "C"
strings that are found in  ANSI C source code in
.I filename
or the
standard input if
.RB ` \(mi \&'
is specified on the command line. The
.B
\&.po \c
file can be used as input to the
.BR msgfmt (1)
utility, which
produces a binary form of the message file that can be  used by application
during run-time.
.sp
.LP
.B xgettext
writes
.I msgid
strings from
.BR gettext (3C)
or
.BR ngettext (3C)
calls in
.I filename
to the default output file
.BR messages.po .
The default
output file name can be changed by
.B -d
option.
.I msgid
strings in
.BR dgettext (3C)
or
.BR dngettext (3C)
calls are written to the output file
.B
domainname\&.po \c
where
.B domainname
is the first parameter to
the
.BR dgettext (3C)
or
.BR dngettext (3C)
call.
.sp
.LP
By default,
.B xgettext
creates a
.B \&.po
file in the current
working directory, and each entry is in the same order that the strings are
extracted from
.IR filenames .
When the
.B -p
option is specified, the
.B
\&.po \c
file is created in the
.I pathname
directory. An existing
.B
\&.po \c
file is overwritten.
.sp
.LP
Duplicate
.IR msgid s
are written to the
.B \&.po
file as comment
lines. When the
.B -s
option is specified, the
.B \&.po
is sorted by
the
.I msgid
string, and all duplicated
.IR msgid s
are removed. All
.I msgstr
directives in the
.B
\&.po
file are empty unless the
.B
-m
option is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 21n
.B -n
Add comment lines to the output file indicating file name and line number in
the source file where each extracted string is encountered. These lines
appear before each
.I msgid
in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# File: \c
.IR filename ", \c
.RI line: " line-number
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.PD 0
.TP
.B -H
.TP
.B --omit-header
.PD
Do not output the mime header to the
.B \&.po
file.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -s
Generate output sorted by 
.IR msgid s
with all duplicate
.IR msgid s
removed.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B --solaris
Fall back to the Solaris features from 1992.
Do not output a mime header and do not recognize the
functions
.BR ngettext (),
.BR dngettext ()
and
.BR dcngettext ()
while scanning the input for strings.

.sp
.ne 2
.PD 0
.TP
.B -S
.TP
.B --strict
.PD
Implement strict uniforum support.
This is currently a no-op.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -a
Extract all strings, not just those found in
.BR gettext (3C),
and
.B dgettext()
calls. Only one
.B \&.po
file is created.

.sp
.ne 2
.PD 0
.TP
.BI -c " comment-tag
.TP
.BI --add-comments " comment-tag
.PD
The comment block beginning with
.I comment-tag
as the first token of the
comment block is added to the output
.B \&.po
file as
.I #
delimited
comments. For multiple domains,
.B xgettext
directs comments and messages
to the prevailing text domain.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -d " default-domain
Rename default output file from
.B messages.po
to
.I default-domain
.BR \&.po .

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -j
Join messages with existing message files.  If a
.B \&.po
file does not
exist, it is created.  If a
.B \&.po
file does exist, new messages are
appended. Any duplicate
.BR msgid s
are commented out in the resulting
.B \&.po
file.  Domain directives in the existing
.B \&.po
file are
ignored. Results are not guaranteed if the existing message file has been
edited.
If used together with the
.B -m
or
.B -M
option, existing translations will be lost. 

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -k " keyword
Specify
.I keyword
as an additional keyword to be looked for. If
.I keyword
is an empty string, this disables the use of default keywords.
.sp
If keyword is a C identifier,
.B xgettext
looks for strings in the first argument of each call to the
function or macro keyword.
If keyword is of the form
.RI ` id : argnum ',
.B xgettext
looks for strings in the
.IB argnum th
argument of the call. If
.I keyword
is of the form
.RI ` id :\c
.IR argnum1 ,\c
.IR argnum2 ',
.B xgettext
looks for strings in the
.IB argnum1 st
argument and in the
.IB argnum2 nd
argument of the call, and treats them as singular/plural variants for a
message with plural handling.
.sp
If
.I keyword
is of the form
.BI ` id : domainargnum\c
.B d\c
.RI , argnum1 [, argum2 ]'
.B xgettext
treats strings in the
.IB domainargnum th
argument as a domain specifier for
.BR dgettext ()-like
functions.
.sp
If
.I keyword
is of the form
.BI ` id : domainargnum d\c
\&',
.B xgettext
looks for a
.BR textdomain ()-like
function.
.sp
The argument numbers start at 1,
.B msgid
and
.BR msgid_plural
must have different values and
the domain argument number must be lower
than the numbers for
.B msgid
and
.BR msgid_plural ;
in other words, the domain argument must be before the message arguments.
.sp
The default keywords, which are always looked for if not explicitly disabled,
are
.BR gettext ,
.BR gettext_l ,
.BR dgettext:1d,2 ,
.BR dgettext_l:1d,2 ,
.BR ngettext:1,2 ,
.BR ngettext_l:1,2 ,
.BR dngettext:1d,2,3 ,
.BR dngettext_l:1d,2,3
and
.BR textdomain:1d .
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -m " prefix
Fill in the
.I msgstr
with
.I prefix
followed by the corresponding
.IR msgid .
This is useful for debugging
purposes. To make
.I msgstr
identical to
.IR msgid ,
use an empty string (\c
.B
""\c
) for
.IR prefix .

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -M " suffix
Fill in the
.I msgstr
with the corresponding
.I msgid
followed by 
.IR suffix .
This is useful for debugging
purposes.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -p " pathname
Specify the directory where the output files will be placed. This option
overrides the current working directory.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -P
Undo the effects of the option
.B \-\-solaris
and implement support for the POSIX draft.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -t
Do not look for strings in calls to
.BR gettext (),
.BR gettext_l (),
.BR dgettext (),
.BR dgettext_l (),
.BR ngettext (),
.BR ngettext_l (),
.BR dngettext (),
.BR dngettext_ ()
but rather for strings that appear in calls to
.BR dcgettext (),
.BR dcgettext_l (),
.BR dcngettext ()
and
.BR dcngettext_l ().

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI -x " exclude-file
Specify a
.B \&.po
file that contains a list of
.IR msgid s
that are
not to be extracted from the input files. The format of
.I exclude-file
is
identical to the
.B \&.po
file. However, only the
.I msgid
directive
line in
.I exclude-file
is used. All other lines are simply ignored.  The
.B -x
option can only be used with the
.B -a
option.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -h
Print a help message on the standard output.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWloc
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR msgfmt (1),
.BR gettext (1),
.BR ngettext (1),
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B xgettext
is not able to extract cast strings, for example ANSI C casts
of literal strings to
.BR "(const char *)" .
This is unnecessary anyway, since
the prototypes in
.B <libintl.h>
already specify this type.
.sp
.LP
In messages and translation notes, lines greater than 2048 characters are
truncated to 2048 characters and a warning message is printed to stderr.
