'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ypcat 1 "23 Jan 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ypcat \- print values in a NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBypcat\fR [\fB-kx\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIypdomain\fR] \fImname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ypcat
command prints out values in the NIS name service map
specified by
.IR mname ,
which may be either a map name or a map nickname.
Since
.B ypcat
uses the NIS network services, no NIS server is
specified.
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (4)
for an overview of the NIS name service.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Display the keys for those maps in which the values are null or the key is
not part of the value. None of the maps derived from files that have an
ASCII version in
.B /etc
fall into this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " ypdomain"
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Display map nicknames.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypmatch (1),
\fBypfiles\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
