'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ypmatch 1 "22 Aug 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ypmatch \- print the value of one or more keys from a NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBypmatch\fR [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdomain\fR] \fIkey\fR [\fIkey\fR].\|.\|. \fImname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBypmatch\fR \fB-x\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBypmatch\fR prints the values associated with one or more keys from the
\fBNIS's\fR name services map specified by
.IR mname ,
which may be either
a map name or a map nickname.
.sp
.LP
Multiple keys can be specified; all keys will be searched for in the same
map. The keys must be the same case and length. No pattern matching is
available. If a key is not matched, a diagnostic message is produced.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -k
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Before printing the value of a key, print the key itself, followed by a
colon
.RB ( : ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Inhibit map nickname translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " domain"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Display the map nickname table. This lists the nicknames the command knows
of, and indicates the map name associated with each nickname.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mname
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The
.B NIS's
name services map
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR ypfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBypmatch\fR will fail with an \fBRPC\fR error message on yp operation if
enough file descriptors are not available. The number of file descriptors
should be increased if this occurs.
