'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH yppasswd 1 "28 Nov 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change your network password in the NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fByppasswd\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B yppasswd
utility changes the network password  associated with
the user
.I username
in the Network Information Service
.RB ( NIS )
database. If the user has done a
.BR keylogin (1),
and a
publickey/secretkey pair exists for the user in the
.B NIS
.B publickey.byname
map,
.B yppasswd
also re-encrypts the secretkey
with the new password. The
.B NIS
password may be different from the
local one on your own machine.
.sp
.LP
.B yppasswd
prompts for the old
.B NIS
password, and then for the
new one. You must type in the old password correctly for the change to take
effect. The new password must be typed twice, to forestall mistakes.
.sp
.LP
New passwords must be at least four characters long, if they use a
sufficiently rich alphabet, and at least six characters long if monocase.
These rules are relaxed if you are insistent enough. Only the owner of the
name or the super-user may change a password; superuser on the root master
will not be prompted for the old password, and does not need to follow
password construction requirements.
.sp
.LP
The
.B NIS
password daemon,
.B rpc.yppasswdd
must be running on your
.B NIS
server in order for the new password to take effect.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nispasswd (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getspnam (3C),
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Even after the user has successfully changed his or her password using this
command, the subsequent
.BR login (1)
using the new password will be
successful only if the user's password and shadow information is obtained
from NIS. See
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getspnam (3C),
and
.BR nsswitch.conf (4).
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The use of
.B yppasswd
is discouraged, as it is now only a wrapper
around the
.BR passwd (1)
command, which should be used instead. Using
.BR passwd (1)
with the
.B "-r nis"
option (see
.BR NIS+ (1))
will
achieve the same results, and will be consistent across all the different
name services available.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in one
.B RPC
call, without ever looking at it. Thus, if you type your old
password incorrectly, you will not be notified until after you have entered
your new password.
