'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ypwhich 1 "7 Apr 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- return name of NIS server or map master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBypwhich\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdomain\fR] [ [\fB-t\fR] \fB-m\fR [\fImname\fR] | [\fB-Vn\fR] \fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBypwhich\fR \fB-x\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBypwhich\fR returns the name of the NIS server that supplies the NIS
name services to a NIS client, or which is the master for a map. If invoked
without arguments, it gives the NIS server for the local machine.  If
\fBhostname\fR is specified, that machine is queried to find out which NIS
master it is using.
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (4)
for an overview of the  NIS name services.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -d " domain"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Use
.I domain
instead of the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
This option inhibits map nickname translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -m " mname"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Find the master NIS server for a map.  No
.B hostname
can be specified
with
.BR -m .
\fImname\fR can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map. When
\fImname\fR is omitted, produce a list of available maps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Display the map nickname translation table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(miVn\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Version of
.BR ypbind ,
V3 is default.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
