'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH zlogin 1 "18 Dec 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zlogin \- enter a zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzlogin\fR [\fB-CE\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIc\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR] \fIzonename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBzlogin\fR [\fB-ES\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIc\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIusername\fR] \fIzonename\fR \fIutility\fR
     [\fIargument\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zlogin
utility is used by the administrator to enter an operating
system zone. Only a superuser operating in the global system zone can use
this utility.
.sp
.LP
.B zlogin
operates in one of three modes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Interactive Mode
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
If no utility argument is given and the stdin file descriptor for the
.B zlogin
process is a tty device,
.B zlogin
operates in
.BR "interactive mode" .
In this mode,
.B zlogin
creates a new pseudo
terminal for use within the login session. Programs requiring a tty device,
for example,
.BR vi (1),
work properly in this mode. In this mode,
.B zlogin
invokes
.BR login (1)
to provide a suitable login session.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Non-Interactive Mode
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
If a utility is specified,
.B zlogin
operates in \fBnon-interactive
mode\fR. This mode can be useful for script authors since stdin, stdout, and
stderr are preserved and the exit status of
.I utility
is returned upon
termination. In this mode,
.B zlogin
invokes
.BR su "(1M) in order to set"
up the user's environment and to provide a login environment.
.sp
The specified command is passed as a string and interpreted by a shell
running in the non-global zone. See
.BR rsh (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Console Mode
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
If the
.B -C
option is specified, the user is connected to the zone
console device and
.B zlogin
operates in
.BR "console mode" .
The zone
console is available once the zone is in the installed state. Connections
to the console are persistent across reboot of the zone.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Connects to the zone console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.I c
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies a different escape character,
.IR c ,
for the key sequence used
to access extended functions and to disconnect from the login. The default
escape character is the tilde
.RB ( ~ ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -E
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Disables the ability to access extended functions or to disconnect from the
login by using the escape sequence character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I username
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies a different
.I username
for the zone login. If you do not use
this option, the zone username used is "root". This option is invalid if the
.B -C
option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -S
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
"Safe" login mode. \fBzlogin\fR does minimal processing and does not invoke
.BR login (1)
or \fBsu\fR(1M). The \fB-S\fR option can not be used if a
username is specified through the
.B -l
option, and cannot be used with
console logins. This mode should only be used to recover a damaged zone when
other forms of login have become impossible.
.RE

.SS "Escape Sequences"
.sp
.LP
Lines that you type that start with the tilde character (\fB~\fR) are
"escape sequences". The escape character can be changed using the \fB-e\fR
option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~.
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Disconnects from the zone. This is not the same as a logout, because the
local host breaks the connection with no warning to the zone's end.
.RE

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
Once a process has been placed in a zone other than the global zone, the
process cannot change zone again, nor can any of its children.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I zonename
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The name of the zone to be entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I utility
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The utility to be run in the specified zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIargument.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Arguments passed to the utility.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
In interactive and non-interactive modes, the
.B zlogin
utility exits
when the command or shell in the non-global zone exits. In non-interactive
mode, the exit status of the remote program is returned as the exit status
of
.BR zlogin .
In interactive mode and console login mode, the exit status
is not returned.
.B zlogin
returns a
.B 0
exit status as long as no
connection-related error occurred.
.sp
.LP
In all modes, in the event that a connection to the zone cannot be
established, the connection fails unexpectedly, or the user is lacking
sufficient privilege to perform the requested operation,
.B zlogin
exits
with status
.BR 1 .
.sp
.LP
To summarize, the following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Successful entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Permission denied, or failure to enter the zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Any
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Return code from utility, or from \fBsu\fR(1M) if operating in
non-interactive mode.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzoneu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR rsh (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR su (1M),
.BR zoneadm (1M),
.BR zonecfg (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B zlogin
fails if its open files or any portion of its address space
corresponds to an NFS file. This includes the executable itself or the
shared libraries.
