'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 20066 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SSAOidCmp 3SNMP "30 Apr 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "SNMP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SSAOidCmp, SSAOidCpy, SSAOidDup, SSAOidFree, SSAOidInit, SSAOidNew,
SSAOidString, SSAOidStrToOid, SSAOidZero \- Sun Solstice Enterprise Agent
OID helper functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lssasnmp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .. ]
#include <impl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBSSAOidCmp\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid1\fR, \fBOid *\fIoid2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBSSAOidCpy\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid1\fR, \fBOid *\fIoid2\fR, \fBchar *\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBOid *\fBSSAOidDup\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid\fR, \fBchar *\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBSSAOidFree\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBSSAOidInit\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid\fR, \fBSubid *\fIsubids\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBchar *\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBOid *\fBSSAOidNew\fR();
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBSSAOidString\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBOid *\fBSSAOidStrToOid\fR(\fBchar*\fR \fIname\fR, \fBchar *\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBSSAOidZero\fR(\fBOid *\fIoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidCmp()
function performs a comparison of the given OIDs.
This function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if
.I oid1
is equal to
.IR oid2
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if
.I oid1
is greater than
.IR oid2
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi1\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
if
.I oid1
is less than
.IR oid2
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidCpy()
function makes a deep copy of
.I oid2
to
.IR oid1 .
This function  assumes
.I oid1
has been processed by the
\fBSSAOidZero()\fR function. Memory is allocated inside \fIoid1\fR and the
contents of
.IR oid2 ,
not just the pointer, is copied to
.IR oid1 .
If an
.RI "error is encountered, an error message is stored in the" " error_label"
buffer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidDup()
function returns a clone of
.IR oid ,
by using the
deep copy. Error information is stored in the
.I error_label
buffer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidFree()
function frees the OID instance, with its content.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidNew()
function returns a new OID.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidInit()
function copies the Subid array from
.I subids
to
the OID instance with the specified length
.IR len .
This function assumes
that the OID instance has been processed by the
.B SSAOidZero()
function
or no memory is allocated inside the OID instance. If an error is
encountered, an error message is stored in the
.I error_label
buffer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidString()
function returns a char pointer for the printable
form of the given
.IR oid .
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidStrToOid()
function returns a new OID instance from
.IR name .
If an error is encountered, an error message is stored in the
\fIerror_label\fR buffer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidZero()
function frees the memory used by the OID object for
buffers, but not the OID instance itself.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B SSAOidNew()
and
.B SSAOidStrToOid()
functions return
.BR 0
if an error is detected.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
