'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libcommputil 3LIB "12 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libcommputil \- communication protocol parser utilities library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lcommputil\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBsdp.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The communication protocol parser utilities library is a placeholder for
public interfaces that facilitate parsing of various communication
protocols. Functions in this library parse the SDP (Session Description
Protocol) description, check for syntax conformance, and generate SDP
descriptions.
.sp
.LP
SDP (Session Description Protocol), described in RFC 4566, describes
multimedia sessions for the purposes of session announcement, session
invitation, and other forms of multimedia session initiation.  SDP is used
to convey session information in Session Initiation Protocol (SIP),
Streaming Media (Real Time Streaming Protocol, RTSP), email, and World Wide
Web and Multicast Session Announcement.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libcommputil.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
sdp_add_attributesdp_add_bandwidth
.B
sdp_add_connectionsdp_add_email
.B
sdp_add_informationsdp_add_key
.B
sdp_add_mediasdp_add_name
.B
sdp_add_originsdp_add_phone
.B
sdp_add_repeatsdp_add_time
.B
sdp_add_urisdp_add_zone
.B
sdp_clone_sessionsdp_delete_attribute
.B
sdp_delete_fieldsdp_delete_media
.B
sdp_delete_media_fieldsdp_find_attribute
.B
sdp_find_mediasdp_find_media_rtpmap
.B
sdp_free_sessionsdp_new_session
.B
sdp_parsesdp_session_to_str
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libcommputil.so.1
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
shared object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libcommputil.so.1
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
64-bit shared object.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR attributes (5)
