'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libcpc 3LIB "8 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libcpc \- CPU performance counter library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lcpc\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide access to CPU performance counters on
platforms that contain the appropriate hardware.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libcpc.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBcpc_access\fR\fBcpc_bind_cpu\fR
\fBcpc_bind_curlwp\fR\fBcpc_bind_event\fR
\fBcpc_bind_pctx\fR\fBcpc_buf_add\fR
\fBcpc_buf_copy\fR\fBcpc_buf_create\fR
\fBcpc_buf_destroy\fR\fBcpc_buf_get\fR
\fBcpc_buf_hrtime\fR\fBcpc_buf_set\fR
\fBcpc_buf_sub\fR\fBcpc_buf_tick\fR
\fBcpc_buf_zero\fR\fBcpc_caps\fR
\fBcpc_cciname\fR\fBcpc_close\fR
\fBcpc_cpuref\fR\fBcpc_count_sys_events\fR
\fBcpc_count_usr_events\fR\fBcpc_disable\fR
\fBcpc_enable\fR\fBcpc_event_accum\fR
\fBcpc_event_diff\fR\fBcpc_eventtostr\fR
\fBcpc_getcciname\fR\fBcpc_getcpuref\fR
\fBcpc_getcpuver\fR\fBcpc_getnpic\fR
\fBcpc_getusage\fR\fBcpc_npic\fR
\fBcpc_open\fR\fBcpc_pctx_bind_event\fR
\fBcpc_pctx_invalidate\fR\fBcpc_pctx_rele\fR
\fBcpc_pctx_take_sample\fR\fBcpc_rele\fR
\fBcpc_request_preset\fR\fBcpc_set_add_request\fR
\fBcpc_set_create\fR\fBcpc_set_destroy\fR
\fBcpc_set_restart\fR\fBcpc_set_sample\fR
\fBcpc_seterrfn\fR\fBcpc_seterrhndlr\fR
\fBcpc_shared_bind_event\fR\fBcpc_shared_close\fR
\fBcpc_shared_open\fR\fBcpc_shared_rele\fR
\fBcpc_shared_take_sample\fR\fBcpc_strtoevent\fR
\fBcpc_take_sample\fR\fBcpc_unbind\fR
\fBcpc_version\fR\fBcpc_walk_attrs\fR
\fBcpc_walk_events_all\fR\fBcpc_walk_events_pic\fR
\fBcpc_walk_generic_events_all\fR\fBcpc_walk_generic_events_pic\fR
\fBcpc_walk_names\fR\fBcpc_walk_requests\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libcpc.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libcpc.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcpcu
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cputrack (1),
.BR cpustat (1M),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR cpc (3CPC),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR xVM (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
There is no support for access to performance counters in the
.BR xVM (5)
environment. The
.B -h
operations for
.BR cputrack (1)
are not
enabled.
