'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libdat 3LIB "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libdat \- direct access transport library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The libdat library provides an application with the User Direct Access
Programming Library (uDAPL) 1.2 functions to access the underlying RDMA-able
interconnects. Different uDAPL service providers listed in the DAT static
registry
.BR dat.conf (4)
can be registered during runtime with the DAT
library. After an application opens an interface adapter belonging to a
particular service provider, all function calls will be redirected to that
service provider's library.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libdat.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below for applications. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on
shared object interfaces.
.SS "uDAPL 1.1"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
dat_cno_createdat_cno_free
.B
dat_cno_modify_agentdat_cno_query
.B
dat_cno_waitdat_cr_accept
.B
dat_cr_handoffdat_cr_query
.B
dat_cr_rejectdat_ep_connect
.B
dat_ep_createdat_ep_disconnect
.B
dat_ep_dup_connectdat_ep_free
.B
dat_ep_get_statusdat_ep_modify
.B
dat_ep_post_rdma_readdat_ep_post_rdma_write
.B
dat_ep_post_recvdat_ep_post_send
.B
dat_ep_querydat_ep_reset
.B
dat_evd_clear_unwaitabledat_evd_create
.B
dat_evd_dequeuedat_evd_disable
.B
dat_evd_enabledat_evd_free
.B
dat_evd_modify_cnodat_evd_post_se
.B
dat_evd_querydat_evd_resize
.B
dat_evd_set_unwaitabledat_evd_wait
.B
dat_get_consumer_contextdat_get_handle_type
.B
dat_ia_closedat_ia_open
.B
dat_ia_querydat_lmr_create
.B
dat_lmr_freedat_lmr_query
.B
dat_provider_finidat_provider_init
.B
dat_psp_createdat_psp_create_any
.B
dat_psp_freedat_psp_query
.B
dat_pz_createdat_pz_free
.B
dat_pz_querydat_registry_list_providers
.B
dat_rmr_binddat_rmr_create
.B
dat_rmr_freedat_rmr_query
.B
dat_rsp_createdat_rsp_free
.B
dat_rsp_querydat_set_consumer_context
\fBdat_strerror\fR
.TE

.SS "uDAPL 1.2"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
dat_ep_create_with_srqdat_ep_recv_query
.B
dat_ep_set_watermarkdat_lmr_sync_rdma_read
.B
dat_lmr_sync_rdma_writedat_srq_create
.B
dat_srq_freedat_srq_post_recv
.B
dat_srq_querydat_srq_resize
\fBdat_srq_set_lw\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libdat.so.1
also provides the public interfaces
defined below for service providers.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
dat_registry_add_provider\fBdat_registry_remove_provider\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libdat.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libdat.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWudaplu (user)
_
SUNWudaplr (root)
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR datadm (1M),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR dat.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B libdat
library supports service providers written according to
the uDAPL 1.2 specification. A service provider library has to be a dynamic
loadable shared object with two public entry points exported:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBdat_provider_init\fR\fBdat_provider_fini\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
In terms of installation, the service provider package should include a
.BR service_provider.conf (4)
file. The
.BR datadm (1M)
administrative
configuration program should be used to add and remove service provider's
entries in the system-wide
.BR dat.conf (4).
