'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libdtrace 3LIB "17 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libdtrace \- DTrace dynamic tracing software library
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library define the interface for interacting with the
DTrace dynamic tracing software, including the D language compiler and
facilities for enabling probes and consuming trace data.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces provided by libdtrace.so.1 are currently private to the
implementation of the Solaris system and DTrace subsystem and are subject to
change at any time without notice.  Applications using these interfaces
might fail to run on future releases. Refer to the \fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR for a description of the public documented interfaces
available for the DTrace facility.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libdtrace.so.1
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libdtrace.so.1
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdtrc
Interface StabilityPrivate
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dtrace (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
