'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libfmevent 3LIB "18 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libfmevent \- fault management events library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \(mi\fBL/usr/lib/fm\fR \(mi\fBlfmevent\fR \(mi\fBlnvpair\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <fm/libfmevent.h>
#include <libnvpair.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This library allows a process to subscribe to a subset of fault management
protocol events published by the fault management daemon.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibfmevent.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBfmev_attr_list\fR\fBfmev_class\fR
\fBfmev_dup\fR\fBfmev_errno\fR
\fBfmev_hold\fR\fBfmev_localtime\fR
\fBfmev_rele\fR\fBfmev_shdl_alloc\fR
\fBfmev_shdl_fini\fR\fBfmev_shdl_free\fR
\fBfmev_shdl_init\fR\fBfmev_shdl_subscribe\fR
\fBfmev_shdl_unsubscribe\fR\fBfmev_shdl_zalloc\fR
\fBfmev_shdlctl_serialize\fR\fBfmev_shdlctl_sigmask\fR
\fBfmev_shdlctl_thrattr\fR\fBfmev_shdlctl_thrcreate\fR
\fBfmev_shdlctl_thrsetup\fR\fBfmev_strerror\fR
\fBfmev_time_nsec\fR\fBfmev_time_sec\fR
\fBfmev_timespec\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBusr/lib/fm/libfmevent.so.1\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBusr/lib/fm/64/libfmevent.so.1\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
AvailabilitySUNWfmd
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR fmev_shdl_init (3FM),
.BR libnvpair (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
