'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libilb 3LIB "3 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libilb \- integrated load balancing library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lilb\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libilb.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide the following capabilities:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
create and destroy ILB rules
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
enable and disable rules
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
add and remove back-end server for a given rule
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
enable and disable servers
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
retrieve the list of rules currently known to the kernel
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
provide a walker function that can call a function supplied to the library
by means of a pointer for every rule, server group, and health check.
.RE
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libilb.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ilb_add_server_to_groupilb_address_to_srvID
.B
ilb_closeilb_create_hc
.B
ilb_create_ruleilb_create_servergroup
.B
ilb_destroy_hcilb_destroy_rule
.B
ilb_destroy_servergroupilb_disable_rule
.B
ilb_disable_serverilb_enable_rule
.B
ilb_enable_serverilb_errstr
.B
ilb_get_hc_infoilb_open
.B
ilb_rem_server_from_groupilb_reset_config
.B
ilb_show_natilb_show_persist
.B
ilb_srvID_to_addressilb_walk_hc
.B
ilb_walk_hc_srvsilb_walk_rules
.B
ilb_walk_servergroupsilb_walk_servers
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libilb.so.1
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/sparcv9/libilb.so.1
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
SPARC shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/amd64/libilb.so.1
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
x86 64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlib

_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR attributes (5)
