'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libmd 3LIB "16 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libmd \- Message Digest library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmd\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBmd4.h\fR>
#include <\fBmd5.h\fR>
#include <\fBsha1.h\fR>
#include <\fBsha2.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide hashing routines for
.BR "MD4 (RFC1320)" ,
.BR "MD5 (RFC1321)" ,
.BR "SHA1 (RFC3174)" ,
.BR "SHA256 (FIPS 180-2)" ,
.BR "SHA384 (FIPS 180-2)" ,
.BR "SHA512 (FIPS 180-2)" .
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libmd.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
MD4FinalMD4Init
.B
MD4Updatemd5_calc
.B
MD5FinalMD5Init
.B
MD5UpdateSHA1Final
.B
SHA1InitSHA1Update
.B
SHA2FinalSHA2Init
\fBSHA2Update\fR
.TE

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B MD4
and
.B MD5
algorithms are currently considered weak for
cryptographic use. The algorithms should be used only for compatibility with
legacy systems or protocols.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SHA1
algorithm is also believed to have some weaknesses.
Migration to one of the
.B SHA2
algorithms-including
.BR SHA256 ,
.B SHA386
or
.BR SHA512 "-is highly recommended when compatibility with"
data formats and on wire protocols is permitted.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libmd.so.1
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libmd.so.1
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

