'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libpicltree 3LIB "18 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libpicltree \- PICL plug-in library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpicltree\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBpicltree.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library are used to by PICL plug-in modules to register
with the PICL daemon and to publish information in the PICL tree.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libpicltree.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBpicld_plugin_register\fR\fBptree_add_node\fR
\fBptree_add_prop\fR\fBptree_add_row_to_table\fR
\fBptree_create_and_add_node\fR\fBptree_create_and_add_prop\fR
\fBptree_create_node\fR\fBptree_create_prop\fR
\fBptree_create_table\fR\fBptree_delete_node\fR
\fBptree_delete_prop\fR\fBptree_destroy_node\fR
\fBptree_destroy_prop\fR\fBptree_find_node\fR
\fBptree_get_first_prop\fR\fBptree_get_frutree_parent\fR
\fBptree_get_next_by_col\fR\fBptree_get_next_by_row\fR
\fBptree_get_next_prop\fR\fBptree_get_node_by_path\fR
\fBptree_get_prop_by_name\fR\fBptree_get_propinfo\fR
\fBptree_get_propval\fR\fBptree_get_propval_by_name\fR
\fBptree_get_root\fR\fBptree_init_propinfo\fR
\fBptree_post_event\fR\fBptree_register_handler\fR
\fBptree_unregister_handler\fR\fBptree_update_propval\fR
\fBptree_update_propval_by_name\fR\fBptree_walk_tree_by_class\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libpicltree.so.1
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpiclu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libpicltree (3PICLTREE),
.BR attributes (5)
