'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libpam 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libpam \- PAM (Pluggable Authentication Module) library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBsecurity/pam_appl.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide routines for the Pluggable Authentication
Module (PAM).
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libpam.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR\fBpam_authenticate\fR
\fBpam_chauthtok\fR\fBpam_close_session\fR
\fBpam_end\fR\fBpam_get_data\fR
\fBpam_get_item\fR\fBpam_get_user\fR
\fBpam_getenv\fR\fBpam_getenvlist\fR
\fBpam_open_session\fR\fBpam_putenv\fR
\fBpam_set_data\fR\fBpam_set_item\fR
\fBpam_setcred\fR\fBpam_start\fR
\fBpam_strerror\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libpam.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/pam.conf\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_dial_auth.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
authentication management 
.B PAM
module for dialups
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_rhosts_auth.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
authentication management 
.B PAM
modules that use
.BR ruserok()
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_sample.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
sample
.B PAM
module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR pam (3PAM),
\fBpam.conf\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dial_auth (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_rhosts_auth (5),
.BR pam_sample (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_session (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functions in
.B libpam
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR pam_unix (5)
module is no longer supported. Similar functionality
is provided by
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
and
.BR pam_unix_session (5).
