'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH librtld_db 3LIB "12 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
librtld_db \- runtime linker debugging library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lrtld_db\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBproc_service.h\fR>
#include <\fBrtld_db.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions is this library are useful for building debuggers for dynamically
linked programs. For a full description of these interfaces refer to the
.IR "Linker and Libraries Guide" .
.sp
.LP
To use
.BR librtld_db ,
applications need to implement the interfaces
documented in
.BR ps_pread "(3PROC) and"
.BR proc_service (3PROC).
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B librtld_db.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBrd_delete\fR\fBrd_errstr\fR
\fBrd_event_addr\fR\fBrd_event_enable\fR
\fBrd_event_getmsg\fR\fBrd_init\fR
\fBrd_loadobj_iter\fR\fBrd_log\fR
\fBrd_new\fR\fBrd_objpad_enable\fR
\fBrd_plt_resolution\fR\fBrd_reset\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/librtld_db.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/librtld_db.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld.so.1 (1),
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR proc_service (3PROC),
.BR ps_pread (3PROC),
.BR rtld_db (3EXT),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
