'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libresolv 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libresolv \- resolver library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lresolv\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBsys/types.h\fR>
#include <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR>
#include <\fBarpa/nameser.h\fR>
#include <\fBresolv.h\fR>
#include <\fBnetdb.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide for creating, sending, and interpreting
packets to the Internet domain name servers.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libresolv.so.2
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fB__dn_skipname\fR\fB__fp_query\fR
\fB__hostalias\fR\fB__p_cdname\fR
\fB__p_class\fR\fB__p_query\fR
\fB__p_time\fR\fB__p_type\fR
\fB__putlong\fR\fB_getlong\fR
\fB_getshort\fR\fB_res\fR
\fBdn_comp\fR\fBdn_expand\fR
\fBfp_resstat\fR\fBh_errno\fR
\fBherror\fR\fBhstrerror\fR
\fBres_hostalias\fR\fBres_init\fR
\fBres_mkquery\fR\fBres_nclose\fR
\fBres_ninit\fR\fBres_nmkquery\fR
\fBres_nquery\fR\fBres_nquerydomain\fR
\fBres_nsearch\fR\fBres_nsend\fR
\fBres_nsendsigned\fR\fBres_query\fR
\fBres_querydomain\fR\fBres_search\fR
\fBres_send\fR\fBres_update\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
Programs are expected to use the aliases defined in  <\fBresolv.h\fR>
rather than calling the "__" prefixed procedures, as indicated in the
following table.  Use of the routines in the first column is discouraged.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBFUNCTION REFERENCED\fR \fBALIAS TO USE\fR
\fB__dn_skipname\fR\fBdn_skipname\fR
\fB__fp_query\fR\fBfp_query\fR
\fB__putlong\fR\fBputlong\fR
\fB__p_cdname\fR\fBp_cdname\fR
\fB__p_class\fR\fBp_class\fR
\fB__p_time\fR\fBp_time\fR
\fB__p_type\fR\fBp_type\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libresolv.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
shared object for backward compatibility only
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libresolv.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit shared object for backward compatibility only
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libresolv.so.2
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libresolv.so.2
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityStandard:  BIND 8.2.4
_
MT-LevelSee \fBresolver\fR(3RESOLV)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR resolver (3RESOLV),
.BR attributes (5)
