'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH librt 3LIB "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
librt, libposix4 \- POSIX.1b Realtime Extensions library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lrt\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Historically, functions in this library provided many of the interfaces
specified by the POSIX.1b Realtime Extension.  See
.BR standards (5).
This
functionality now resides in
.BR libc (3LIB).
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both
runtime and compilation environments. The shared      object is implemented
as a filter on libc.so.1. New application development need not specify
.BR -lrt .
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared objects
.B librt.so.1
and
.B libposix4.so.1
provide the
public interfaces defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional
information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBaio_cancel\fR\fBaio_error\fR
\fBaio_fsync\fR\fBaio_read\fR
\fBaio_return\fR\fBaio_suspend\fR
\fBaio_waitn\fR\fBaio_write\fR
\fBclock_getres\fR\fBclock_gettime\fR
\fBclock_nanosleep\fR\fBclock_settime\fR
\fBclose\fR\fBfdatasync\fR
\fBfork\fR\fBlio_listio\fR
\fBmq_close\fR\fBmq_getattr\fR
\fBmq_notify\fR\fBmq_open\fR
\fBmq_receive\fR\fBmq_reltimedreceive_np\fR
\fBmq_reltimedsend_np\fR\fBmq_send\fR
\fBmq_setattr\fR\fBmq_timedreceive\fR
\fBmq_timedsend\fR\fBmq_unlink\fR
\fBnanosleep\fR\fBsched_get_priority_max\fR
\fBsched_get_priority_min\fR\fBsched_getparam\fR
\fBsched_getscheduler\fR\fBsched_rr_get_interval\fR
\fBsched_setparam\fR\fBsched_setscheduler\fR
\fBsched_yield\fR\fBsem_close\fR
\fBsem_destroy\fR\fBsem_getvalue\fR
\fBsem_init\fR\fBsem_open\fR
\fBsem_post\fR\fBsem_reltimedwait_np\fR
\fBsem_timedwait\fR\fBsem_trywait\fR
\fBsem_unlink\fR\fBsem_wait\fR
\fBshm_open\fR\fBshm_unlink\fR
\fBsigqueue\fR\fBsigtimedwait\fR
\fBsigwaitinfo\fR\fBtimer_create\fR
\fBtimer_delete\fR\fBtimer_getoverrun\fR
\fBtimer_gettime\fR\fBtimer_settime\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The following interfaces are unique to the 32-bit version of this
library:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBaio_cancel64\fR\fBaio_error64\fR
\fBaio_fsync64\fR\fBaio_read64\fR
\fBaio_return64\fR\fBaio_suspend64\fR
\fBaio_waitn64\fR\fBaio_write64\fR
\fBlio_listio64\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/librt.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/librt.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit shared object file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libposix4.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libposix4.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit shared object file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libc (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
