'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libsasl 3LIB "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libsasl \- simple authentication and security layer library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBsasl/sasl.h\fR>
#include <\fBsasl/prop.h\fR>
#include <\fBsasl/saslutil.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
SASL is a security framework used by connection-oriented network
applications primarily for authentication.  Another way to describe SASL is
that it is a glue layer between a network application and some security
mechanisms that allow applications to authenticate each other and provide
additional security services such as data encryption.  As a glue layer, SASL
hides the interface specifics of the security mechanism from the
application, which allows greater portability and flexibility as new
security mechanisms are implemented.  SASL is similar to the GSS-API in that
it provides a layer of abstraction between an application and one or more
security mechanisms.
.sp
.LP
.B libsasl
provides both an API for applications and an SPI for various
plug-ins. To link with this library, specify
.B -lsasl
on the
.BR cc
command line.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libsasl.so.1
and associated include files provide
the public interfaces defined below. The
.B *_t
interfaces are function
prototypes for callbacks that are defined in the public SASL header files.
While
.B libsasl
provides default versions for some of the callbacks,
this structure allows an application to define its own version of the some
of the callback functions.
.sp
.LP
See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
prop_clearprop_dispose
.B
prop_dupprop_erase
.B
prop_formatprop_get
.B
prop_getnamesprop_new
.B
prop_requestprop_set
.B
prop_setvalssasl_authorize_t
.B
sasl_auxpropsasl_auxprop_add_plugin
.B
sasl_auxprop_getctxsasl_auxprop_request
.B
sasl_canon_user_tsasl_canonuser_add_plugin
.B
sasl_chalprompt_tsasl_checkapop
.B
sasl_checkpasssasl_client_add_plugin
.B
sasl_client_initsasl_client_new
.B
sasl_client_plug_init_tsasl_client_start
.B
sasl_client_stepsasl_decode
.B
sasl_decode64sasl_dispose
.B
sasl_donesasl_encode
.B
sasl_encode64sasl_encodev
.B
sasl_erasebuffersasl_errdetail
.B
sasl_errorssasl_errstring
.B
sasl_getcallback_tsasl_getopt_t
.B
sasl_getpath_tsasl_getprop
.B
sasl_getrealm_tsasl_getsecret_t
.B
sasl_getsimple_tsasl_global_listmech
.B
sasl_idlesasl_listmech
.B
sasl_log_tsasl_server_add_plugin
.B
sasl_server_initsasl_server_new
.B
sasl_server_plug_init_tsasl_server_start
.B
sasl_server_stepsasl_server_userdb_checkpass_t
.B
sasl_server_userdb_setpass_tsasl_set_alloc
.B
sasl_set_mutexsasl_seterror
.B
sasl_setpasssasl_setprop
.B
sasl_utf8verifysasl_verifyfile_t
\fBsasl_version\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libsasl.so.1
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR attributes (5),
