'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libsocket 3LIB "2 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libsocket \- sockets library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lsocket\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide the socket internetworking interface,
primarily used with the TCP/IP protocol suite.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libsocket.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
__xnet_bind__xnet_connect
.B
__xnet_getsockopt__xnet_listen
.B
__xnet_recvmsg__xnet_sendmsg
.B
__xnet_sendto__xnet_socket
.B
__xnet_socketpairaccept
.B
bindconnect
.B
endnetentendprotoent
.B
endserventether_aton
.B
ether_hosttonether_line
.B
ether_ntoaether_ntohost
.B
freeaddrinfogai_strerror
.B
getaddrinfogetnameinfo
.B
getnetbyaddrgetnetbyaddr_r
.B
getnetbynamegetnetbyname_r
.B
getnetentgetnetent_r
.B
getpeernamegetprotobyname
.B
getprotobyname_rgetprotobynumber
.B
getprotobynumber_rgetprotoent
.B
getprotoent_rgetservbyname
.B
getservbyname_rgetservbyport
.B
getservbyport_rgetservent
.B
getservent_rgetsockname
.B
getsockopthtonl
.B
htonsif_freenameindex
.B
if_indextonameif_nameindex
.B
if_nametoindexin6addr_any
.B
in6addr_loopbackinet_lnaof
.B
inet_makeaddrinet_network
.B
listenntohl
.B
ntohsrcmd
.B
rcmd_afrecv
.B
recvfromrecvmsg
.B
rexecrexec_af
.B
rresvportrresvport_af
.B
ruseroksend
.B
sendmsgsendto
.B
setnetentsetprotoent
.B
setserventsetsockopt
.B
shutdownsocket
\fBsocketpair\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libsocket.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libsocket.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSee the manual page for each interface.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR socket.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5)
