'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libtnfctl 3LIB "22 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libtnfctl \- TNF probe control library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.. \fB-ltnfctl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBtnf/tnfctl.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide TNF probe control routines for use by
processes and the kernel.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libtnfctl.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
tnfctl_buffer_alloctnfctl_buffer_dealloc
.B
tnfctl_check_libstnfctl_close
.B
tnfctl_continuetnfctl_exec_open
.B
tnfctl_filter_list_addtnfctl_filter_list_delete
.B
tnfctl_filter_list_gettnfctl_filter_state_set
.B
tnfctl_indirect_opentnfctl_internal_open
.B
tnfctl_kernel_opentnfctl_pid_open
.B
tnfctl_probe_applytnfctl_probe_apply_ids
.B
tnfctl_probe_connecttnfctl_probe_disable
.B
tnfctl_probe_disconnect_alltnfctl_probe_enable
.B
tnfctl_probe_state_gettnfctl_probe_trace
.B
tnfctl_probe_untracetnfctl_register_funcs
.B
tnfctl_strerrortnfctl_trace_attrs_get
\fBtnfctl_trace_state_set\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libtnfctl.so.1
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libtnfctl.so.1
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnfc (32-bit)
_
SUNWtnfcx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libtnfctl (3TNF),
.BR tracing (3TNF),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This
.B API
is MT-Safe.  Multiple threads can concurrently operate on
independent
.B tnfctl
handles, which is the typical behavior expected.
.B libtnfctl
does not support multiple threads operating on the same
.B tnfctl
handle.  If this is desired, it is the client's responsibility
to implement locking to ensure that two threads that use the same
.B tnfctl
handle are not simultaneously present in a
.B libtnfctl
interface.
