'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 by Martin C. Shepherd.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH libtecla 3LIB "1 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libtecla \- interactive command line input library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltecla\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBlibtecla.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This library provides programs with interactive command line editing
facilities, similar to those of the UNIX
.B tcsh
shell. In addition to
simple command-line editing, it supports recall of previously entered
command lines, TAB completion of file names or other tokens, and in-line
wildcard expansion of filenames. The internal functions that perform
file-name completion and wild-card expansion are also available externally
for optional use by the calling program.
.SS "Thread Safety"
.sp
.LP
The
.B terminfo
functions
.BR setupterm (3CURSES),
.BR tigetstr (3CURSES),
.BR tigetnum (3CURSES),
and
.BR tputs (3CURSES)
are not reentrant. This condition, however, should not prevent use of this
library in threaded applications, since few applications will want to
interact with multiple terminals.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libtecla.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
cfc_file_startcfc_literal_escapes
.B
cfc_set_check_fncpl_add_completion
.B
cpl_check_execpl_complete_word
.B
cpl_file_completionscpl_last_error
.B
cpl_list_completionscpl_recall_matches
.B
cpl_record_errordel_CplFileConf
.B
del_ExpandFiledel_GetLine
.B
del_PathCachedel_PcaPathConf
.B
del_WordCompletionef_expand_file
.B
ef_last_erroref_list_expansions
.B
gl_abandon_linegl_append_history
.B
gl_automatic_historygl_bind_keyseq
.B
gl_catch_blockedgl_change_terminal
.B
gl_clear_historygl_completion_action
.B
gl_configure_getlinegl_customize_completion
.B
gl_display_textgl_echo_mode
.B
gl_erase_terminalgl_error_message
.B
gl_get_linegl_group_history
.B
gl_handle_signalgl_ignore_signal
.B
gl_inactivity_timeoutgl_io_mode
.B
gl_last_signalgl_limit_history
.B
gl_list_signalsgl_load_history
.B
gl_lookup_historygl_normal_io
.B
gl_pending_iogl_prompt_style
.B
gl_query_chargl_range_of_history
.B
gl_raw_iogl_read_char
.B
gl_register_actiongl_replace_prompt
.B
gl_resize_historygl_return_status
.B
gl_save_historygl_set_term_size
.B
gl_show_historygl_size_of_history
.B
gl_state_of_historygl_terminal_size
.B
gl_toggle_historygl_trap_signal
.B
gl_tty_signalsgl_watch_fd
.B
libtecla_versionnew_CplFileConf
.B
new_ExpandFilenew_GetLine
.B
new_PathCachenew_PcaPathConf
.B
new_WordCompletionpca_last_error
.B
pca_lookup_filepca_path_completions
.B
pca_scan_pathpca_set_check_fn
.B
ppc_file_startppc_literal_escapes
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libtecla.so.1
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libtecla.so.1
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR enhance (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR cpl_complete_word (3TECLA),
.BR ef_expand_file (3TECLA),
.BR gl_get_line (3TECLA),
.BR gl_io_mode (3TECLA),
.BR pca_lookup_file (3TECLA),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR tecla (5)
