'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libtsol 3LIB "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libtsol \- Solaris Trusted Extensions library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
#include <tsol.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide programmatic access to Solaris Trusted
Extensions features such as labels and Mandatory Access Policy (MAC) on
systems that are configured with Trusted Extensions software.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libtsol.so.2
provides the public interfaces that
are defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.SS "Committed Functions"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
bldominatesblequal
.B
blstrictdomgetpathbylabel
.B
getplabelgetdevicerange
.B
getuserrangegetzoneidbylabel
.B
getzonelabelbyidgetzonerootbyid
.B
getzonerootbylabelgetzonerootbyname
.B
label_to_strlabelbuilder
.B
labelclippingm_label_alloc
.B
m_label_dupm_label_free
.B
setflabelstr_to_label
.B
tsol_lbuild_createtsol_lbuild_destroy
.B
tsol_lbuild_gettsol_lbuild_set
.B
XbcleartosXbsltos
.TE

.SS "Obsolete Functions"
.sp
.LP
The following functions are preserved to aid porting.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
FunctionCommitted Replacement
.B
bcleartohlabel_to_str
.B
bcleartoh_rlabel_to_str
.B
bcleartoslabel_to_str
.B
bltocolorlabel_to_str
.B
bltocolor_rlabel_to_str
.B
bsltohlabel_to_str
.B
bsltoh_rlabel_to_str
.B
bsltoslabel_to_str
.B
h_alloclabel_to_str
.B
h_freelabel_to_str
.B
htobclearstr_to_label
.B
htobslstr_to_label
.B
sbcleartosstr_to_label
.B
sbsltosstr_to_label
.B
stobslstr_to_label
.B
stobclearstr_to_label
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libtsol.so.2
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libtsol.so.2
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
_
Interface StabilityT{
See the manual pages for the individual functions.
T}
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libtsnet (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system has been configured with Trusted Extensions.
