'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libthread 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libthread \- threads library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Historically, functions in
.B libthread
provided threading support. This
functionality now resides in
.BR libc (3LIB).
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both
runtime and compilation environments. The shared object is implemented as a
filter on
.BR libc.so.1 .
New application development need not specify
.BR -lthread .
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libthread.so.1
provides the public interfaces
defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBcond_broadcast\fR\fBcond_destroy\fR
\fBcond_init\fR\fBcond_reltimedwait\fR
\fBcond_signal\fR\fBcond_timedwait\fR
\fBcond_wait\fR\fBmutex_destroy\fR
\fBmutex_init\fR\fBmutex_lock\fR
\fBmutex_trylock\fR\fBmutex_unlock\fR
\fBrw_rdlock\fR\fBrw_tryrdlock\fR
\fBrw_trywrlock\fR\fBrw_unlock\fR
\fBrw_wrlock\fR\fBrwlock_destroy\fR
\fBrwlock_init\fR\fBsema_destroy\fR
\fBsema_init\fR\fBsema_post\fR
\fBsema_trywait\fR\fBsema_wait\fR
\fBthr_continue\fR\fBthr_create\fR
\fBthr_exit\fR\fBthr_getconcurrency\fR
\fBthr_getprio\fR\fBthr_getspecific\fR
\fBthr_join\fR\fBthr_keycreate\fR
\fBthr_kill\fR\fBthr_main\fR
\fBthr_min_stack\fR\fBthr_self\fR
\fBthr_setconcurrency\fR\fBthr_setprio\fR
\fBthr_setspecific\fR\fBthr_sigsetmask\fR
\fBthr_stksegment\fR\fBthr_suspend\fR
\fBthr_yield\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libthread.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
a filter on
.BR libc.so.1
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libthread.so.1
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
a filter on
.BR 64/libc.so.1
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libc (3LIB),
.BR libc_db (3LIB),
.BR libpthread (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR threads (5)
