'\" te
.\" Copyright 2006, Sun Microsystems Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libtsnet 3LIB "7 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libtsnet \- Solaris Trusted Extensions network library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBlibtsnet.h\fR>
#include <\fBsys/tsol/tndb.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide programmatic access to Solaris Trusted
Extensions features such as labels and Mandatory Access Policy (MAC). These
functions are available on systems that are configured with Trusted
Extensions software.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libtsnet.so.1
provides the public interfaces that
are defined below.  See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBtsol_getrhtype\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libtsnet.so.1
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libtsnet.so.1
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
