'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libusb 3LIB "19 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libusb \- user-space USB device management library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fB-I\fR/usr/include \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-L\fR/usr/lib \e
     \fB -R \fR/usr/lib \fB -lusb \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <usb.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B libusb
library contains interfaces for managing USB devices
without a kernel driver.  It is an open-source API supported on Linux, MacOS
X, and NetBSD. See http://libusb.sourceforge.net.
.sp
.LP
The current implementation is version 0.1.8 of the
.B libusb
API.
.sp
.LP
Complete documentation for this library can be found at
.BR /usr/share/doc/libusb/libusb.txt .
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libusb.so.1
provides the following public
interfaces. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
.B
usb_bulk_readusb_bulk_write
.B
usb_claim_interfaceusb_clear_halt
.B
usb_closeusb_control_msg
.B
usb_find_bussesusb_find_devices
.B
usb_get_bussesusb_get_descriptor_by_endpoint
.B
usb_get_descriptorusb_get_string
.B
usb_get_string_simpleusb_init
.B
usb_interrupt_readusb_interrupt_write
.B
usb_openusb_release_interface
.B
usb_resetusb_resetep
.B
usb_set_altinterfaceusb_set_configuration
.B
usb_set_debugusb_strerror
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/libusb.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/64/libusb.so.1
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/libusb_plugins
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
implementation-specific
.B libusb
modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/bin/libusb-config
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
script to determine linking environment
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibusb, SUNWlibusbut, SUNWlibugenusb
_
Interface StabilityExternal
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://libusb.sourceforge.net
