'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libw 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libw \- wide character library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBwchar.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Historically, functions in this library provided wide character
translations. This functionality now resides in
.BR libc (3LIB).
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both
runtime and compilation environments. The shared object is implemented as a
filter on
.BR libc.so.1 .
New application development need not specify
.BR -lw .
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libw.so.1
provides the public interfaces defined
below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
\fBfgetwc\fR\fBfgetws\fR\fBfputwc\fR
\fBfputws\fR\fBgetwc\fR\fBgetwchar\fR
\fBgetws\fR\fBisenglish\fR\fBisideogram\fR
\fBisnumber\fR\fBisphonogram\fR\fBisspecial\fR
\fBiswalnum\fR\fBiswalpha\fR\fBiswcntrl\fR
\fBiswctype\fR\fBiswdigit\fR\fBiswgraph\fR
\fBiswlower\fR\fBiswprint\fR\fBiswpunct\fR
\fBiswspace\fR\fBiswupper\fR\fBiswxdigit\fR
\fBputwc\fR\fBputwchar\fR\fBputws\fR
\fBstrtows\fR\fBtowlower\fR\fBtowupper\fR
\fBungetwc\fR\fBwatoll\fR\fBwcscat\fR
\fBwcschr\fR\fBwcscmp\fR\fBwcscoll\fR
\fBwcscpy\fR\fBwcscspn\fR\fBwcsftime\fR
\fBwcslen\fR\fBwcsncat\fR\fBwcsncmp\fR
\fBwcsncpy\fR\fBwcspbrk\fR\fBwcsrchr\fR
\fBwcsspn\fR\fBwcstod\fR\fBwcstok\fR
\fBwcstol\fR\fBwcstoul\fR\fBwcswcs\fR
\fBwcswidth\fR\fBwcsxfrm\fR\fBwctype\fR
\fBwcwidth\fR\fBwscasecmp\fR\fBwscat\fR
\fBwschr\fR\fBwscmp\fR\fBwscol\fR
\fBwscoll\fR\fBwscpy\fR\fBwscspn\fR
\fBwsdup\fR\fBwslen\fR\fBwsncasecmp\fR
\fBwsncat\fR\fBwsncmp\fR\fBwsncpy\fR
\fBwspbrk\fR\fBwsprintf\fR\fBwsrchr\fR
\fBwsscanf\fR\fBwsspn\fR\fBwstod\fR
\fBwstok\fR\fBwstol\fR\fBwstoll\fR
\fBwstostr\fR\fBwsxfrm\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libw.so.1
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
a filter on
.BR libc.so.1
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libw.so.1
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
a filter on
.BR 64/libc.so.1
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pvs (1),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libc (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
