'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH libXtsol 3LIB "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libXtsol, libxtsol \- Trusted Extensions to X Windows Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lX11\fR \fB-lXtsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
#include <X11/extensions/Xtsol.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide Trusted Extensions to the X windows
library.
.sp
.LP
The functions in this library are available only if the system is
configured with Trusted Extensions.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object
.B libXtsol.so.1
provides the public interfaces that
are defined below. See
.BR Intro (3)
for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBXTSOLIsWindowTrusted\fR\fBXTSOLMakeTPWindow\fR
\fBXTSOLgetClientAttributes\fR\fBXTSOLgetPropAttributes\fR
\fBXTSOLgetPropLabel\fR\fBXTSOLgetPropUID\fR
\fBXTSOLgetResAttributes\fR\fBXTSOLgetResLabel\fR
\fBXTSOLgetResUID\fR\fBXTSOLgetSSHeight\fR
\fBXTSOLgetWorkstationOwner\fR\fBXTSOLsetPolyInstInfo\fR
\fBXTSOLsetPropLabel\fR\fBXTSOLsetPropUID\fR
\fBXTSOLsetResLabel\fR\fBXTSOLsetResUID\fR
\fBXTSOLsetSSHeight\fR\fBXTSOLsetSessionHI\fR
\fBXTSOLsetSessionLO\fR\fBXTSOLsetWorkstationOwner\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/libXtsol.so.1
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /lib/64/libXtsol.so.1
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxwts
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libtsnet (3LIB),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system has been configured with Trusted Extensions.
