'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_parents 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_parents \- get parents of given lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_parents\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIchild\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t *\fIlgrp_array\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlgrp_array_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_parents()
function takes a
.I cookie
representing a
snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from
.BR lgrp_init "(3LGRP) and"
returns the number of parent lgroups of the specified lgroup. If
.I lgrp_array
is non-null and the
.I lgrp_array_size
is non-zero, the
array is filled with as many of the parent lgroup IDs as will fit given the
size of the array. For the root lgroup, the number of parents returned is 0
and the
.I lgrp_array
argument is not filled in.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_parents()
returns the number of
parent lgroup IDs. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_parents()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified cookie or lgroup ID is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup ID was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_children (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_nlgrps (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
