'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_root 3LGRP "31 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_root \- return root lgroup ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fBlgrp_root\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_root()
function returns the root lgroup ID.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_root()
returns the lgroup ID of the
root lgroup. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_root()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I cookie
is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_children (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_nlgrps (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_parents (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
