'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_home 3LGRP "1 Jun 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_home \- get home lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fBlgrp_home\fR(\fBidtype_t\fR \fIidtype\fR, \fBid_t\fR \fIid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_home()
function returns the ID of the home lgroup for the
given process or thread.  A thread can have an affinity for an lgroup in the
system such that the thread will tend to be scheduled to run on that lgroup
and allocate memory from there whenever possible.  The lgroup with the
strongest affinity that the thread can run on is known as the "home lgroup"
of the thread.  If the thread has no affinity for any lgroup that it can run
on, the operating system will choose a home for it.
.sp
.LP
The
.I idtype
argument should be
.B P_PID
to specify a process and
the
.I id
.RI "argument should be its process ID.  Otherwise, the" " idtype"
argument should be
.B P_LWPID
to specify a thread and the
.IR id
argument should be its LWP ID. The value
.B P_MYID
can be used for the
\fIid\fR argument to specify the current process or thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_home()
returns the ID of the home
lgroup of the specified process or thread. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_home()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The ID type is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The effective user of the calling process does not have appropriate
privileges, and its real or effective user ID does not match the real or
effective user ID of one of the threads.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified process or thread was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP),
.BR attributes (5)
