'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_latency 3LGRP "26 Jan 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_latency, lgrp_latency_cookie \- get latency between two lgroups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_latency_cookie\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIfrom\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIto\fR, \fBlgrp_lat_between_t\fR \fIbetween\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_latency\fR(\fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIfrom\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIto\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_latency_cookie()
function takes a cookie representing a
snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from
.BR lgrp_init "(3LGRP) and"
returns the latency value between a hardware resource in the
.I from
lgroup to a hardware resource in the
.I to
lgroup. If
.I from
is the
same lgroup as
.IR to ,
the latency value within that lgroup is returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.I between
argument should be set to the following value to specify
between which hardware resources the latency should be measured:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM     /* latency from CPU to memory */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The latency value is defined by the operating system and is
platform-specific. It can be used only for relative comparison of lgroups on
the running system. It does not necessarily represent the actual latency
between hardware devices, and it might not be applicable across platforms.
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_latency()
function is similiar to the
.B lgrp_latency_cookie()
function, but returns the latency between the
given lgroups at the given instant in time. Since lgroups can be freed and
reallocated, this function might not be able to provide a consistent answer
across calls. For that reason, the
.B lgrp_latency_cookie()
function
should be used in its place.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the latency value is returned. Otherwise \(mi1
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_latency_cookie()
and
.B lgrp_latency()
functions will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified cookie, lgroup ID, or value given for the
.I between
argument is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup ID was not found, the
.I from
lgroup does not
contain any CPUs, or the
.I to
lgroup does not have any memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_parents (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_children (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
