'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_affinity_get 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_affinity_get, lgrp_affinity_set \- get of set lgroup affinity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBlgrp_affinity_t\fR \fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR(\fBidtype_t\fR \fIidtype\fR, \fBid_t\fR \fIid\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIlgrp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_affinity_set\fR(\fBidtype_t\fR \fIidtype\fR, \fBid_t\fR \fIid\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIlgrp\fR,
     \fBlgrp_affinity_t\fR \fIaffinity\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_affinity_get()
function returns the affinity that the LWP or set
of LWPs specified by the
.I idtype
and
.I id
arguments have for the given
lgroup.
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_affinity_set()
function sets the affinity that the LWP or set of
LWPs specified by
.I idtype
and
.I id
have for the given lgroup.  The
lgroup affinity can be set to
.BR LGRP_AFF_STRONG ,
.BR LGRP_AFF_WEAK ,
or
.BR LGRP_AFF_NONE .
.sp
.LP
If the
.I idtype
is
.BR P_PID ,
the affinity is retrieved for one of the
LWPs in the process or set for all the LWPs of the process with process ID (PID)
.IR id .
The affinity is retrieved or set for the LWP of the current process
with LWP ID
.I id
if
.I idtype
is
.BR P_LWPID .
If
.I id
is
.BR P_MYID ,
then the current LWP or process is specified.
.sp
.LP
The operating system uses the lgroup affinities as advice on where to run a
thread and allocate its memory and factors this advice in with other constraints.
Processor binding and processor sets can restrict which lgroups a thread can run
on, but do not change the lgroup affinities.
.sp
.LP
Each thread can have an affinity for an lgroup in the system such that the
thread will tend to be scheduled to run on that lgroup and allocate memory from
there whenever possible.  If the thread has affinity for more than one lgroup,
the operating system will try to run the thread and allocate its memory on the
lgroup for which it has the strongest affinity, then the next strongest, and so
on up through some small, system-dependent number of these lgroup affinities.
When multiple lgroups have the same affinity, the order of preference among them
is unspecified and up to the operating system to choose.  The lgroup with the
strongest affinity that the thread can run on is known as its "home lgroup" (see
.BR lgrp_home (3LGRP))
and is usually the operating system's first choice of
where to run the thread and allocate its memory.
.sp
.LP
 There are different levels of affinity that can be specified by a thread for a particuliar lgroup.  The levels of affinity are the following from strongest to weakest:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LGRP_AFF_STRONG         /* strong affinity */
LGRP_AFF_WEAK           /* weak affinity */
LGRP_AFF_NONE           /* no affinity */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B LGRP_AFF_STRONG
affinity serves as a hint to the operating system that
the calling thread has a strong affinity for the given lgroup.  If this is the
thread's home lgroup, the operating system will avoid rehoming it to another
lgroup if possible.  However, dynamic reconfiguration, processor offlining,
processor binding, and processor set binding and manipulation are examples of
events that can cause the operating system to change the thread's home lgroup for
which it has a strong affinity.
.sp
.LP
The
.B LGRP_AFF_WEAK
affinity is a hint to the operating system that the
calling thread has a weak affinity for the given lgroup.  If a thread has a weak
affinity for its home lgroup, the operating system interpets this to mean that
thread does not mind whether it is rehomed, unlike
.BR LGRP_AFF_STRONG .
Load
balancing, dynamic reconfiguration, processor binding, or processor set binding
and manipulation are examples of events that can cause the operating system to
change a thread's home lgroup for which it has a weak affinity.
.sp
.LP
The
.B LGRP_AFF_NONE
affinity signifies no affinity and can be used to remove
a thread's affinity for a particuliar lgroup.  Initially, each thread has no
affinity to any lgroup.  If a thread has no lgroup affinities set, the operating
system chooses a home lgroup for the thread with no affinity set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_affinity_get()
returns the affinity for
the given lgroup.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_affinity_set()
return 0.
.sp
.LP
Otherwise, both functions return \(mi1 and set
.B errno
to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_affinity_get()\fR and \fBlgrp_affinity_set()\fR functions will fail
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup, affinity, or ID type is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The effective user of the calling process does not have appropriate privileges,
and its real or effective user ID does not match the real or effective user ID of
one of the LWPs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup or LWP(s) was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_home (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
