'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_cookie_stale 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_cookie_stale \- determine whether snapshot of lgroup hierarchy is
stale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_cookie_stale()
function takes a
.I cookie
representing
the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP)
and returns whether it is stale. The snapshot can become out-of-date for a
number of reasons depending on its view.  If the snapshot was taken with
.BR LGRP_VIEW_OS ,
changes in the lgroup hierarchy from dynamic
reconfiguration, CPU on/offline, or other conditions can cause the snapshot
to become out-of-date. A snapshot taken with
.B LGRP_VIEW_CALLER
can be
affected by the caller's processor set binding and changes in its processor
set itself, as well as changes in the lgroup hierarchy.
.sp
.LP
If the snapshot needs to be updated,
.BR lgrp_fini (3LGRP)
should be
called with the old cookie and
.B lgrp_init()
should be called to obtain
a new snapshot.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B lgrp_cookie_stale()
returns whether the
cookie is stale. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_cookie_stale()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The cookie is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_fini (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_view (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
