'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_children 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_children \- get children of given lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_children\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIparent\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t *\fIlgrp_array\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlgrp_array_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_children()
function takes a
.I cookie
representing a
snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy retrieved from
.BR lgrp_init "(3LGRP) and"
returns the number of lgroups that are children of the specified lgroup. If
the
.I lgrp_array
and
.I lgrp_array_size
arguments are non-null, the
array is filled with as many of the children lgroup IDs as will fit, given
the size of the array.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\(mi returns the number of child lgroup IDs. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_children()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup ID is not valid or the cookie is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified lgroup ID was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_nlgrps (3LGRP),
.BR lgrp_parents (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
