'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lgrp_version 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_version \- coordinate library and application versions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_version\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B lgrp_version()
function takes an interface version number,
.IR version ,
as an argument and returns an lgroup interface version.  The
.I version
argument should be the value of
.B LGRP_VER_CURRENT
bound
to the application when it was compiled or
.B LGRP_VER_NONE
to find out
the current lgroup interface version on the running system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.I version
is still supported by the implementation, then
.B lgrp_version()
returns the requested version. If
.B LGRP_VER_NONE
is returned, the implementation cannot support the requested version. The
application should be recompiled and might require further changes.
.sp
.LP
If
.I version
is
.BR LGRP_VER_NONE ,
.B lgrp_version()
returns the
current version of the library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Test whether the version of the interface used by the
caller is supported.
.sp
.LP
The following example tests whether the version of the interface used by
the caller is supported:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

if (lgrp_version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT) != LGRP_VER_CURRENT) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Built with unsupported lgroup interface %d\en",
        LGRP_VER_CURRENT);
    exit (1);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lgrp_init (3LGRP),
.BR liblgrp (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
