'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH complex.h 3HEAD "17 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
complex.h, complex \- complex arithmetic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBcomplex.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < complex.h >
header defines the following macros:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B complex
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Expands to
.BR _Complex .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _Complex_I
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Expands to a constant expression of type const float
.BR _Complex ,
with
the value of the imaginary unit (that is, a number i such that i^2=\(mi1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B imaginary
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Expands to
.BR _Imaginary .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _Imaginary_I
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Expands to a constant expression of type
.B "const float _Imaginary"
with
the value of the imaginary unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B I
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Expands to either
.B _Imaginary_I
or
.BR _Complex_I .
If
.B _Imaginary_I
is  not defined,
.B I
expands to
.BR _Complex_I .
.RE

.sp
.LP
An application can undefine and then, if appropriate, redefine the
.BR complex ,
.BR imaginary ,
and
.B I
macros.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Values are interpreted as radians, not degrees.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cabs (3M),
.BR cacos (3M),
.BR cacosh (3M),
.BR carg (3M),
.BR casin (3M),
.BR casinh (3M),
.BR catan (3M),
.BR catanh (3M),
.BR ccos (3M),
.BR ccosh (3M),
.BR cexp (3M),
.BR cimag (3M),
.BR clog (3M),
.BR conj (3M),
.BR cpow (3M),
.BR cproj (3M),
.BR creal (3M),
.BR csin (3M),
.BR csinh (3M),
.BR csqrt (3M),
.BR ctan (3M),
.BR ctanh (3M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The choice of
.B I
instead of
.B i
for the imaginary unit concedes to
the widespread use of the identifier
.B i
for other purposes. The
application can use a different identifier, say
.BR j ,
for the imaginary
unit by following the inclusion of the
.RB < complex.h >
header with:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#undef I
#define j _Imaginary_I
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
An
.B I
suffix to designate imaginary constants is not required, as
multiplication by
.B I
provides a sufficiently convenient and more
generally useful notation for imaginary terms. The corresponding real type
for the imaginary unit is
.BR float ,
so that use of
.B I
for
algorithmic or notational convenience does not result in widening types.
.sp
.LP
On systems with imaginary types, the application has the ability to control
whether use of the macro
.B I
introduces an imaginary type, by explicitly
defining
.B I
to be
.B _Imaginary_I
or
.BR _Complex_I .
.sp
.LP
Disallowing imaginary types is useful for some applications intended to run
on implementations without support for such types.
.sp
.LP
The macro
.B _Imaginary_I
provides a test for whether imaginary types
are supported. The
.B cis()
function
.B "(cos(x) + I*sin(x))"
was
considered but rejected because its implementation is easy and
straightforward, even though some implementations could compute sine and
cosine more efficiently in tandem.
