'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH in.h 3HEAD "30 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
in.h, in \- Internet Protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <netinet/in.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the following types through
.BR typedef :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B in_port_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An unsigned integral type of exactly 16 bits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B in_addr_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An unsigned integral type of exactly 32 bits. The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the
.B in_addr
structure that includes the following
member:
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the
.B in_addr
structure that
includes the following member:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
in_addr_t       s_addr
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.RB "The <" netinet/in.h "> header defines the type " sa_family_t " as"
described in
.BR socket.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the following macros for use as
values of the
.I level
argument of
.B getsockopt()
and
.BR setsockopt() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPPROTO_IP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Dummy for
.BR IP
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPPROTO_ICMP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Control message protocol
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPPROTO_TCP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
.B TCP
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPPROTO_UDP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
User datagram protocol The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the
following macros for use as destination addresses for
.BR connect() ,
.BR sendmsg() ,
and
.BR sendto() :
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B INADDR_ANY
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Local host address
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B INADDR_BROADCAST
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Broadcast address
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header defines the
.B sockaddr_in
structure
that is used to store addresses for the Internet protocol family.  Values of
this type must be cast to
.B "struct sockaddr"
for use with the socket
interfaces.
.SS "Default"
.sp
.LP
For applications that do not require standard-conforming behavior (those
that use the socket interfaces described in section (3SOCKET) of the
reference manual; see
.BR Intro (3)
and
.BR standards (5)),
the
.RB < netinet/in.h "> header defines the " sockaddr_in " structure that"
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sa_family_t     sin_family
in_port_t       sin_port
struct in_addr  sin_addr
char            sin_zero[8]
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Standard conforming"
.sp
.LP
For applications that require standard-conforming behavior (those that use
the socket interfaces described in section (3XNET) of the reference manual;
see
.BR Intro (3)
and
.BR standards (5)),
the
.RB < netinet/in.h >
header
defines the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that includes the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sa_family_t     sin_family
in_port_t       sin_port
struct in_addr  sin_addr
unsigned char   sin_zero[8]
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR connect (3SOCKET),
.BR connect (3XNET),
.BR getsockopt (3SOCKET),
.BR getsockopt (3XNET),
.BR sendmsg (3SOCKET),
.BR sendmsg (3XNET),
.BR sendto (3SOCKET),
.BR sendto (3XNET),
.BR setsockopt (3SOCKET),
.BR setsockopt (3XNET),
.BR socket.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
