'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mqueue.h 3HEAD "30 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
mqueue.h, mqueue \- message queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <mqueue.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The <" mqueue.h "> header defines the " mqd_t " type, which is used for"
message queue descriptors.  This will not be an array type.  A message queue
descriptor may be implemented using a file descriptor, in which case
applications can open up to at least
.B OPEN_MAX
file and message
queues.
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < mqueue.h >
header defines the
.B sigevent
structure (as
described in
.RB < signal.h >,
see
.BR signal.h (3HEAD))
and the
.B mq_attr
structure, which is used in getting and setting the attributes
of a message queue.  Attributes are initially set when the message queue is
created. A
.B mq_attr
structure has the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBlong    mq_flags       message queue flags
long    mq_maxmsg      maximum number of messages
long    mq_msgsize     maximum message size
long    mq_curmsgs     number of messages currently queued\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the
.RB < mqueue.h >
header may make visible symbols defined
in the headers <\fBfcntl.h\fR>, <\fBsignal.h\fR>, <\fBsys/types.h\fR>, and
.RB < time.h >.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fcntl.h (3HEAD),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR time.h (3HEAD),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
