'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nl_types.h 3HEAD "3 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
nl_types.h, nl_types \- native language data types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <nl_types.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This header contains the following definitions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nl_catd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Used by the message catalog functions
.BR catopen ,
.B catgets
and
.B catclose
to identify a catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nl_item
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Used by
.B nl_langinfo
to identify items of langinfo data. Values for
objects of type
.B nl_item
are defined in \fB<langinfo.h>\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NL_SETD
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Used by
.B gencat
when no
.B $set
directive is specified in a message
text source file. This constant can be used in subsequent calls to
.B catgets
as the value of the set identifier parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NL_MGSMAX
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Maximum number of messages per set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NL_SETMAX
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Maximum number of sets per catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NL_TEXTMAX
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Maximum size of a message.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gencat (1),
.BR catgets (3C),
.BR catopen (3C),
.BR nl_langinfo (3C),
.BR langinfo.h (3HEAD)
