'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH regex.h 3HEAD "9 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
regex.h, regex \- regular expression matching types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBregex.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBregex.h\fR> header defines the structures and symbolic constants
used by the
.BR regcomp() ,
.BR regexec() ,
.BR regerror() ,
and
\fBregfree()\fR functions. See
.BR regcomp (3C).
.sp
.LP
The structure type
.B regex_t
contains the following member:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
size_t re_nsub     number of parenthesized subexpressions
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The type
.B size_t
is defined as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See
.BR types.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The type \fBregoff_t\fR is defined as a signed integer type that can hold
the largest value that can be stored in either a type \fBoff_t\fR or type
.BR ssize_t .
The structure type
.B regmatch_t
contains the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
regoff_t rm_so     byte offset from start of string to start
                   of substring
regoff_t rm_eo     byte offset from start of string of the
                   first character after the end of substring
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Values for the \fIcflags\fR parameter to the \fBregcomp\fR function are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_EXTENDED
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
use extended regular expressions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ICASE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
ignore case in match
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_NOSUB
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
report only success or fail in
.BR regexec()
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_NEWLINE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
change the handling of
.B NEWLINE
character
.RE

.sp
.LP
Values for the \fIeflags\fR parameter to the \fBregexec()\fR function are
as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_NOTBOL
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The circumflex character (^), when taken as a special character, does not
match the beginning of string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_NOTEOL
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The dollar sign ($), when taken as a special character, does not match the
end of string.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following constants are defined as error return values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_NOMATCH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\fBregexec()\fR failed to match.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_BADPAT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Invalid regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ECOLLATE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Invalid collating element referenced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ECTYPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Invalid character class type referenced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_EESCAPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Trailing '\e' in pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ESUBREG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Number in \e\fIdigit\fR invalid or in error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_EBRACK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
"[]" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_EPAREN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
"\e(\e)" or "()" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_EBRACE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
"\{\}" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_BADBR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Content of "\{\}" invalid: not a  number, number too large, more than two
numbers, first larger than second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ERANGE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Invalid endpoint in range expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ESPACE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Out of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_BADRPT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\&'?', '*', or '+' not preceded by valid regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B REG_ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Reserved.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR regcomp (3C),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
