'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH resource.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
resource.h, resource \- definitions for resource operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/resource.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the symbolic constants listed
below as possible values of the
.I which
argument of
.BR getpriority()
and
.BR setpriority() .
See
.BR getpriority (3C).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRIO_PROCESS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
identifies the
.I who
argument as a process ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRIO_PGRP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
identifies the
.I who
argument as a process group ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PRIO_USER
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
identifies the
.I who
argument as a user  ID
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following type is defined through
.BR typedef :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rlim_t
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
unsigned integer type used for limit values
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following symbolic constants are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIM_INFINITY
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
a value of
.B rlim_t
indicating no limit
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIM_SAVED_MAX
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
a value of type
.B rlim_t
indicating an unrepresentable saved hard
limit
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIM_SAVED_CUR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
a value of type
.B rlim_t
indicating an unrepresentable saved soft
limit
.RE

.sp
.LP
The symbolic constants listed below are defined as possible values of the
.I who
parameter of
.BR getrusage() .
See
.BR getrusage (3C).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RUSAGE_SELF
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
returns information about the current process
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RUSAGE_CHILDREN
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
returns information about children of the current process
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the
.B rlimit
structure, which
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
rlim_t rlim_cur     /* the current (soft) limit */
rlim_t rlim_max     /* the hard limit */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the
.B rusage
structure, which
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct timeval ru_utime     /* user time used */
struct timeval ru_stime     /* system time used */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B timeval
structure is defined as described in
<\fBsys/time.h\fR>.
.sp
.LP
The symbolic constants listed below are defined as possible values for the
.I resource
argument of
.B getrlimit()
and
.BR setrlimit() .
See
.BR getrlimit (2).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_CORE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on size of core dump file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_CPU
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on CPU time per process
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_DATA
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on data segment size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_FSIZE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on file size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_NOFILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on number of open files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_STACK
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on stack size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RLIMIT_AS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
limit on address space size
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B id_t
type is defined through
.B typedef
as described in
<\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See
.BR types.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header can also make visible all
symbols from <\fBsys/time.h\fR>. See
.BR time.h (3HEAD).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR getpriority (3C),
.BR time.h (3HEAD),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
