'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
sem.h, sem \-  semaphore facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/sem.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/sem.h\fR> header defines the following constants and
structures.
.sp
.LP
Semaphore operation flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SEM_UNDO
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set up adjust on exit entry.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Command definitions for the
.B semctl()
function are provided as listed
below. See
.BR semctl (2).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETNCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Get
.BR semncnt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETPID
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Get
.BR sempid .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Get
.BR semval .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETALL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Get all cases of
.BR semval .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETZCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Get
.BR semzcnt .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SETVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set
.BR semval .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SETALL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set all cases of
.BR semval .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B semid_ds
structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct ipc_perm sem_perm     /* operation permission structure */
unsigned short  sem_nsems    /* number of semaphores in set */
time_t          sem_otime    /* last \fBsemop()\fR time */
time_t          sem_ctime    /* last time changed by \fBsemctl()\fR */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.BR pid_t ,
.BR time_t ,
.BR key_t ,
and
.B size_t
types are
defined as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See
.BR types.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
A semaphore is represented by an anonymous structure containing the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unsigned short semval     /* semaphore value */
pid_t          sempid     /* process ID of last operation */
unsigned short semncnt    /* number of processes waiting for \fBsemval\fR
                             to become greater than current value */
unsigned short semzcnt    /* number of processes waiting for \fBsemval\fR
                             to become 0 */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBsembuf\fR structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unsigned short sem_num     /* semaphore number */
short          sem_op      /* semaphore operation */
short          sem_flg     /* operation flags */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All of the symbols from <\fBsys/ipc.h\fR> are defined when this header is
included. See
.BR ipc.h (3HEAD).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR ipc.h (3HEAD),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
