'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH statvfs.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
statvfs.h, statvfs \- VFS File System information structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/statvfs.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The <" sys/statvfs.h "> header defines the " statvfs " structure, which"
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unsigned long f_bsize     /* file system block
                             size */
unsigned long f_frsize    /* fundamental file system block
                             size */
fsblkcnt_t    f_blocks    /* total number of blocks on file
                             system in units of \fBf_frsize\fR */
fsblkcnt_t    f_bfree     /* total number of free blocks */
fsblkcnt_t    f_bavail    /* number of free blocks available
                             to non-privileged process */
fsfilcnt_t    f_files     /* total number of file serial
                             numbers */
fsfilcnt_t    f_ffree     /* total number of free file serial
                             numbers */
fsfilcnt_t    f_favail    /* number of file serial numbers
                             available to non-privileged
unsigned long f_fsid      /* process file system ID */
unsigned long f_flag      /* bit mask of \fBf_flag\fR values */
unsigned long f_namemax   /* maximum filename length */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.BR fsblkcnt_t " and "
.B fsfilcnt_t
types are defined as described in
.RB < sys/types.h >.
See
.BR types.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The following flags for the
.B f_flag
member are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ST_RDONLY
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
read-only file system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ST_NOSUID
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.RB "does not support " setuid() / setgid() " semantics"
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR statvfs (2),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
