'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stddef.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
stddef.h, stddef \- standard type definitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBstddef.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < stddef.h >
header defines the following macros:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NULL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Null pointer constant.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B offsetof(type, member-designator)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Integer constant expression of type
.BR size_t ,
the value of which is the
offset in bytes to the structure member
.RB ( member-designator ),
from the
beginning of its structure
.RB ( type ).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.RB < stddef.h >
header defines the following types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ptrdiff_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Signed integer type of the result of subtracting two pointers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wchar_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Integer type whose range of values can represent distinct wide-character
codes for all members of the largest character set specified among the
locales supported by the compilation environment: the null character has the
code value 0 and each member of the portable character set has a code value
equal to its value when used as the lone character in an integer character
constant.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B size_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Unsigned integer type of the result of the
.B sizeof
operator.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The implementation supports one or more programming environments in which
the widths of
.BR ptrdiff_t ,
.BR size_t ,
and
.B wchar_t
are no
greater than the width of type
.BR long .
The names of these programming
environments can be obtained using the
.BR confstr (3C)
function or the
.BR getconf (1)
utility.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getconf (1),
.BR confstr (3C),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR wchar.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
