'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stdio.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
stdio.h, stdio \- standard buffered input/output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBstdio.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBstdio.h\fR> header defines the following macros as positive integer
constant expressions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BUFSIZ
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
size of <\fBstdio.h\fR> buffers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _IOFBF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
input/output fully buffered
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _IOLBF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
input/output line buffered
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _IONBF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
input/output unbuffered
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B L_ctermid
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
maximum size of character array to hold
.B ctermid()
output
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B L_tmpnam
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
maximum size of character array to hold
.B tmpnam()
output
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SEEK_CUR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
seek relative to current position
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SEEK_END
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
seek relative to end-of-file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SEEK_SET
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
seek relative to start-of-file
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following macros are defined as positive integer constant expressions
that denote implementation limits:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{FILENAME_MAX\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Maximum size in bytes of the longest filename string that the
implementation guarantees can be opened.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{FOPEN_MAX\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Number of streams that the implementation guarantees can be open
simultaneously. The value is at least eight.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB{TMP_MAX\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Minimum number of unique filenames generated by
.BR tmpnam() .
Maximum
number of times an application can call
.B tmpnam()
reliably. The value
of {\fBTMP_MAX\fR} is at least 25. On XSI-conformant systems, the value of
{\fBTMP_MAX\fR} is at least 10000.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following macro name is defined as a negative integer constant
expression:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOF
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
end-of-file return value
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following macro name is defined as a null pointer constant:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NULL
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
null pointer
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following macro name is defined as a string constant:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B P_tmpdir
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
default directory prefix for
.BR tempnam()
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following is defined as expressions of type "pointer to \fBFILE\fR"
point to the
.B FILE
objects associated, respectively, with the standard
error, input, and output streams:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stderr
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
standard error output stream
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stdin
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
standard input stream
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B stdout
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
standard output stream
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following data types are defined through
.BR typedef :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FILE
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
structure containing information about a file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B fpos_t
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
non-array type containing all information needed to specify uniquely every
position within a file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B va_list
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
as described in <\fBstdarg.h\fR>
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B size_t
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
as described in <\fBstddef.h\fR>
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rename (2),
.BR ctermid (3C),
.BR fclose (3C),
.BR fdopen (3C),
.BR fflush (3C),
.BR fgetc (3C),
.BR fgetpos (3C),
.BR fgets (3C),
.BR flockfile (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fputc (3C),
.BR fputs (3C),
.BR fputwc (3C),
.BR fread (3C),
.BR freopen (3C),
.BR fseek (3C),
.BR fsetpos (3C),
.BR ftell (3C),
.BR fwrite (3C),
.BR getwchar (3C),
.BR getopt (3C),
.BR perror (3C),
.BR popen (3C),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR remove (3C),
.BR rewind (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR setbuf (3C),
.BR stdio (3C),
.BR system (3C),
.BR tmpfile (3C),
.BR tmpnam (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
.BR vprintf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
