'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH time.h 3HEAD "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
time.h, time \- time types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBtime.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBtime.h\fR> header declares the structure
.BR tm ,
which includes
the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int tm_sec     /* seconds [0,60] */
int tm_min     /* minutes [0,59] */
int tm_hour    /* hour [0,23] */
int tm_mday    /* day of month [1,31] */
int tm_mon     /* month of year [0,11] */
int tm_year    /* years since 1900 */
int tm_wday    /* day of week [0,6] (Sunday =0) */
int tm_yday    /* day of year [0,365] */
int tm_isdst   /* daylight savings flag */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The value of
.B tm_isdst
is positive if Daylight Saving Time is in
effect, 0 if Daylight Saving Time is not in effect, and negative if the
information is not available.
.sp
.LP
The <\fBtime.h\fR> header defines the following symbolic names:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NULL
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Null pointer constant.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCKS_PER_SEC
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
A number used to convert the value returned by the
.B clock()
function
into seconds. See
.BR clock (3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_PROCESS_CPUTIME_ID
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The identifier of the CPU-time clock associated with the process making a
.B clock()
or
.B timer*()
function call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_THREAD_CPUTIME_ID
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The identifier of the CPU-time clock associated with the thread making a
.B clock()
or
.B timer*()
function call.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBtime.h\fR> header declares the
.B timespec
structure, which has
the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
time_t tv_sec     /* seconds */
long   tv_nsec     /* nanoseconds */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBtime.h\fR> header declares the
.B itimerspec
structure, which
has the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct timespec it_interval     /* timer period */
struct timespec it_value     /* timer expiration */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following manifest constants are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_REALTIME
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The identifier of the system-wide realtime clock.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TIMER_ABSTIME
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Flag indicating time is absolute. For functions taking timer objects, this
refers to the clock associated with the timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_MONOTONIC
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The identifier for the system-wide monotonic clock, which is defined as a
clock whose value cannot be set with
.B clock_settime()
and that cannot
have backward clock jumps. The maximum possible clock jump is
implementation-defined. See
.BR clock_settime (3C).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR clock_t ,
.BR size_t ,
.BR time_t ,
.BR clockid_t ,
and
.B timer_t
types are defined as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See
.BR types.h (3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
Although the value of
.B CLOCKS_PER_SEC
is required to be 1 million on
all standard-conforming systems, it can be variable on other systems, and it
should not be assumed that
.B CLOCKS_PER_SEC
is a compile-time
constant.
.sp
.LP
The <\fBtime.h\fR> header provides a declaration for
.BR getdate_err .
.sp
.LP
The following are declared as variables:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
extern int daylight;
extern long timezone;
extern char *tzname[];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the <\fBtime.h\fR> header can make visible all symbols from
the <\fBsignal.h\fR> header.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The range [0,60] for
.B tm_sec
allows for the occasional leap second.
.sp
.LP
.B tm_year
is a signed value; therefore, years before 1900 can be
represented.
.sp
.LP
To obtain the number of clock ticks per second returned by the
.B times()
function, applications should call \fBsysconf(_SC_CLK_TCK)\fR.
See
.BR times (2)
and
.BR sysconf (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR time (2),
.BR utime (2),
.BR clock (3C),
.BR ctime (3C),
.BR difftime (3C),
.BR getdate (3C),
.BR mktime (3C),
.BR strftime (3C),
.BR strptime (3C),
.BR types.h (3HEAD),
.BR clock_settime (3C),
.BR nanosleep (3C),
.BR timer_create (3C),
.BR timer_delete (3C),
.BR timer_settime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
