'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ucontext.h 3HEAD "30 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
ucontext.h, ucontext \- user context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBucontext.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  <\fBucontext.h\fR> header defines the
.B ucontext_t
type as a
structure that includes at least the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ucontext_t  uc_link
sigset_t    uc_sigmask
stack_t     uc_stack
mcontext_t  uc_mcontext
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B uc_link
member is a pointer to the context that to be resumed
when this context returns. If
.B uc_link
is equal to 0, this context is
the main context and the process exits when this context returns.
.sp
.LP
The
.B uc_sigmask
member defines the set of signals that are blocked
when this context is active. See
.BR sigprocmask (2).
.sp
.LP
The
.B uc_stack
member defines the stack used by this context. See
.BR sigaltstack (2).
.sp
.LP
The
.B uc_mcontext
member contains the saved set of machine registers
and any implementation-specific context data. Portable applications should
not modify or access
.BR uc_mcontext .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getcontext (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigaltstack (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR makecontext (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
