'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wchar.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
wchar.h, wchar \- wide-character handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBwchar.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < wchar.h >
header defines the following types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wchar_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
As described in
.RB < stddef.h >.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wint_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An integer type capable of storing any valid value of
.B wchar_t
or
.BR WEOF .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B wctype_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A scalar type of a data object that can hold values which represent
locale-specific character classification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mbstate_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An object type other than an array type that can hold the conversion state
information necessary to convert between sequences of (possibly multi-byte)
characters and wide characters.  If a codeset is being used such that  an
.B mbstate_t
needs to preserve more than two levels of reserved state,
the results are unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FILE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
As described in
.RB < stdio.h >.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B size_t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
As described in
.RB < stddef.h >.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B va_list
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
As described in
.RB < stdarg.h >.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The implementation supports one or more programming environments in which
the width of
.B wint_t
is no greater than the width of type
.BR long .
The names of these programming environments can be obtained using the
.BR confstr (3C)
function or the
.BR getconf (1)
utility.
.sp
.LP
The
.RB < wchar.h >
header defines the following macros:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WCHAR_MAX
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The maximum value representable by an object of type
.BR wchar_t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WCHAR_MIN
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The minimum value representable by an object of type
.BR wchar_t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WEOF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Constant expression of type
.B wint_t
that is returned by several WP
functions to indicate end-of-file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NULL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
As described in
.RB < stddef.h >.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The tag
.B tm
is declared as naming an incomplete structure type, the
contents of which are described in the header
.RB < time.h >.
.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the
.RB < wchar.h >
header can make visible all symbols from
the headers <\fBctype.h\fR>,  <\fBstring.h\fR>, <\fBstdarg.h\fR>,
<\fBstddef.h\fR>, <\fBstdio.h\fR>, <\fBstdlib.h\fR>, and <\fBtime.h\fR>.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getconf (1),
.BR btowc (3C),
.BR confstr (3C),
.BR fgetwc (3C),
.BR getws (3C),
.BR fputwc (3C),
.BR fputws (3C),
.BR fwide (3C),
.BR fwprintf (3C),
.BR fwscanf (3C),
.BR getwc (3C),
.BR getwchar (3C),
.BR iswalpha (3C),
.BR iswctype (3C),
.BR mbsinit (3C),
.BR mbrlen (3C),
.BR mbrtowc (3C),
.BR mbsrtowcs (3C),
.BR towlower (3C),
.BR towupper (3C),
.BR ungetwc (3C),
.BR vfwprintf (3C),
.BR wcrtomb (3C),
.BR wcsrtombs (3C),
.BR wcstring (3C),
.BR wcsstr (3C),
.BR wcstod (3C),
.BR wcscoll (3C),
.BR wcsftime (3C),
.BR wcstol (3C),
.BR wcstoul (3C),
.BR wcswidth (3C),
.BR wcsxfrm (3C),
.BR wctob (3C),
.BR wctype (3C),
.BR wcwidth (3C),
.BR wmemchr (3C),
.BR wmemcmp (3C),
.BR wmemcpy (3C),
.BR wmemmove (3C),
.BR wmemset (3C),
.BR stdarg (3EXT),
.BR stddef.h (3HEAD),
.BR stdio.h (3HEAD),
.BR stdlib.h (3HEAD),
.BR string.h (3HEAD),
.BR time.h (3HEAD),
.BR wctype.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
