'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cpr 7 "7 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Device and Network Interfaces"
.SH NAME
cpr \- Suspend and resume module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/platform/'uname -m'/kernel/misc/cpr\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpr
module is a loadable module used to suspend and resume the
entire system. You may wish to suspend a system to save power or to power
off temporarily for transport. The
.B cpr
module should not be used in
place of a normal shutdown when performing any hardware reconfiguration or
replacement. In order for the resume operation to succeed, it is important
that the hardware configuration remain the same. When the system is
suspended, the entire system state is preserved in non-volatile storage
until a resume operation is conducted.
.sp
.LP
.BR dtpower (1M)
or
.BR power.conf (4)
are used to configure the
suspend-resume feature.
.sp
.LP
The speed of suspend  and resume operations can range from 15 seconds to
several minutes, depending on the system speed, memory size, and load.
.sp
.LP
During resume operation, the
.B SIGTHAW
signal is sent to all processes
to allow them to do any special processing in response to suspend-resume
operation. Normally applications are not required to do any special
processing because of suspend-resume, but some specialized processes can use
.B SIGTHAW
to restore the state prior to suspend. For example,
.B X
can refresh the screen in response to
.BR SIGTHAW .
.sp
.LP
In some cases the
.B cpr
module may be unable to perform the suspend
operation. If a system contains additional devices outside the standard
shipped configuration, it is possible that device drivers for these
additional devices might not support suspend-resume  operations. In this
case, the suspend fails and an error message is displayed. These devices
must be removed or their device drivers unloaded for the  suspend operation
to succeed. Contact the device manufacturer to obtain a new version of
device driver that supports suspend-resume.
.sp
.LP
A  suspend  may also fail when devices or processes are performing critical
or time-sensitive operations (such as realtime operations). The system will
remain in its current running state. Messages reporting the failure will be
displayed on the console and status returned to the caller. Once the system
is successfully suspended the resume operation will succeed, barring
external influences such as a hardware reconfiguration.
.sp
.LP
Some network-based applications may fail across a suspend and resume cycle.
This largely depends on the underlying network protocol and the applications
involved. In general, applications that retry and automatically reestablish
connections will continue to operate  transparently on a resume operation;
those applications that do not will likely fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcpr
_
Interface stability Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtpower (1M)
(OpenWindows Reference Manual), \fBpmconfig\fR(1M),
.BR uadmin (1M),
.BR uadmin (2),
.BR power.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Using Power Management
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Certain device operations such as tape and floppy disk activities are not
resumable due to the nature of removable media.  These activities are
detected at suspend time, and must be stopped before the suspend operation
will complete successfully.
.sp
.LP
Suspend-resume is currently  supported only on a limited set of hardware
platforms. Please see  the book
.I "Using Power Management"
for a complete
list of platforms that support system Power Management. See
.BR uname (2)
to programatically determine if the machine supports suspend-resume.
