'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH Intro 7 "29 Sep 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "Device and Network Interfaces"
.SH NAME
Intro, intro \- introduction to special files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This section describes various device and network interfaces available on
the system.  The types of interfaces described  include character and block
devices, STREAMS modules, network protocols, file systems, and ioctl
requests for driver subsystems and classes.
.sp
.LP
This section contains the following major collections:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (7D)
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The system provides drivers for a variety of hardware devices, such as
disk, magnetic tapes, serial communication lines, mice, and frame buffers,
as well as virtual devices such as pseudo-terminals and windows.
.sp
This section describes special files that refer to specific hardware
peripherals and device drivers. STREAMS   device drivers are also described.
Characteristics of both the hardware device and the corresponding device
driver are discussed where applicable.
.sp
An application accesses a device through that device's special file. This
section specifies the device special file to be used to access the device as
well as application programming interface (API) information relevant to the
use of the device driver.
.sp
All device special files are located under the
.B /devices
directory.
The
.B /devices
directory hierarchy attempts to mirror the hierarchy of
system busses, controllers, and devices configured on the system.   Logical
device names for special files in
.B /devices
are located under the
.B /dev
directory. Although not every special file under \fB/devices\fR
will have a corresponding logical entry under
.BR /dev ,
whenever
possible, an application should reference a device using  the logical name
for the device. Logical device names are listed in the
.B FILES
section
of the page for the device in question.
.sp
This section also describes driver configuration where applicable. Many
device drivers have a driver configuration file of the form
\fIdriver_name\fB\&.conf\fR associated with them (see
.BR driver.conf (4)).
The configuration information stored  in the driver
configuration file is used to configure the driver and the device.  Driver
configuration files are located in
.B /kernel/drv
and
.BR /usr/kernel/drv .
Driver configuration files for platform dependent
drivers are  located in
.B "/platform/`uname -i`/kernel/drv"
where
.B `uname -i`
is the output of the
.BR uname (1)
command with the
.B -i
option.
.sp
Some driver configuration files may contain user configurable properties.
Changes in a driver's configuration file will not take effect until the
system is rebooted or the driver has been removed and re-added (see
.BR rem_drv (1M)
and
.BR add_drv (1M)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (7FS)
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This section describes the  programmatic interface for several file systems
supported by SunOS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (7I)
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This section describes ioctl requests which apply to a class of drivers or
subsystems. For example, ioctl requests which apply to most tape devices are
discussed in  \fBmtio\fR(7I). Ioctl requests relevant to only a specific
device are described on the man page for that device. The page for the
device in question should still be examined for exceptions to the ioctls
listed in section 7I.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (7M)
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This section describes
.B STREAMS
.RB "modules.  Note that " " STREAMS"
drivers are discussed in section 7D. \fBstreamio\fR(7I) contains a list of
ioctl requests used to manipulate
.B STREAMS
modules and interface with
the
.B STREAMS
framework.  Ioctl requests specific to a  \fBSTREAMS\fR
module will be discussed on the man page for that module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B (7P)
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This section describes various network protocols available in SunOS.
.sp
SunOS supports both socket-based and
.B STREAMS-based
network
communications. The Internet protocol family, described in
.BR inet (7P),
is the primary protocol family supported by SunOS, although the system can
support a number of others.  The raw interface provides low-level services,
such as packet fragmentation and reassembly, routing, addressing, and basic
transport for socket-based implementations.  Facilities for communicating
using an Internet-family protocol are generally accessed by specifying the
.B AF_INET
address family when binding a socket; see
.BR socket (3SOCKET)
for details.
.sp
Major protocols in the Internet family include:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Internet Protocol (IP) itself, which supports the universal datagram
format, as described in \fBip\fR(7P). This is the default protocol for
.B SOCK_RAW
type sockets within the
.B AF_INET
domain.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP); see
.BR tcp (7P).
This is the
default protocol for
.B SOCK_STREAM
type sockets.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The User Datagram Protocol (UDP); see \fBudp\fR(7P). This is the default
protocol for
.B SOCK_DGRAM
type sockets.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP); see
.BR arp (7P).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP); see
.BR icmp (7P).
.RE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR add_drv (1M),
.BR rem_drv (1M),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR socket (3SOCKET),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR arp (7P),
.BR icmp (7P),
.BR inet (7P),
.BR ip (7P),
.BR mtio (7I),
.BR st (7D),
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR tcp (7P),
.BR udp (7P)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: IP Services
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
