'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kvm_read 3KVM "2 May 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel VM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
kvm_read, kvm_write \- copy data to or from a kernel image or running
system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lkvm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|.]
#include <kvm.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBkvm_read\fR(\fBkvm_t *\fIkd\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fIaddr\fR, \fBvoid *\fIbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssize_t\fR \fBkvm_write\fR(\fBkvm_t *\fIkd\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fIaddr\fR, \fBvoid *\fIbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kvm_read()
function transfers data from the kernel image
specified by
.I kd
(see \fBkvm_open\fR(3KVM)) to the address space of the
process.
.I nbytes
bytes of data are copied from the kernel virtual
address given by
.I addr
to the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf .
.sp
.LP
The
.B kvm_write()
function is like
.BR kvm_read() ,
except that the
direction of data transfer is reversed. To use this function, the
.BR kvm_open (3KVM)
call that returned
.I kd
must have specified write
access. If a user virtual address is given, it is resolved in the address
space of the process specified in the most recent
.BR kvm_getu (3KVM)
call.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B kvm_read()
and
.B kvm_write()
functions are obsolete and might
be removed in a future release. The functions described on the
.BR kvm_kread (3KVM)
manual page should be used instead.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success, these functions return the number of bytes actually
transferred. On failure, they return \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkvm_getu\fR(3KVM), \fBkvm_kread\fR(3KVM)\fBkvm_nlist\fR(3KVM),
.BR kvm_open (3KVM),
.BR attributes (5)
