'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kvm_nlist 3KVM "2 May 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel VM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
kvm_nlist \- get entries from kernel symbol table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lkvm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|.]
#include <kvm.h>
#include <nlist.h>

\fBint\fR \fBkvm_nlist\fR(\fBkvm_t *\fIkd\fR, \fBstruct nlist *\fInl\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kvm_nlist()
function examines the symbol table from the kernel
image identified by
.I kd
(see
.BR kvm_open (3KVM))
and selectively
extracts a list of values and puts them in the array of
.BR nlist
structures pointed to by
.IR nl .
The name list pointed to by
.IR nl
consists of an array of structures containing names, types and values.  The
.B n_name
field of each such structure is taken to be a pointer to a
character string representing a symbol name.  The list is terminated by an
entry with a null pointer (or a pointer to a null string) in the
.B n_name
field.  For each entry in
.IR nl ,
if the named symbol is
present in the kernel symbol table, its value and type are placed in the
.B n_value
and
.B n_type
fields. If a symbol cannot be located, the
corresponding
.B n_type
field of
.I nl
is set to 0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B kvm_nlist()
functions returns the value of
.BR nlist "(3UCB) or"
.BR nlist (3ELF),
depending on the library used.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kvm_open (3KVM),
.BR kvm_kread (3KVM),
.BR nlist (3ELF),
.BR nlist (3UCB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Although the
.B libkvm
API is Stable, the symbol names and data values
that can be accessed through this set of interfaces are Private and are
subject to ongoing change.
