'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH brands 5 "29 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
brands \- alternate operating environments for non-global zones
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The branded zone (BrandZ) framework extends the Solaris Zones infrastructure
described in
.BR zones (5)
to include the creation of brands, which provide
non-global zones that contain non-native operating environments.
.sp
.LP
The term "brand" can refer to a wide range of operating environments. All
brand management is performed as extensions to the current zones structure.
.sp
.LP
Every zone is configured with an associated brand. The brand type is used to
determine which scripts are executed when a zone is installed and booted. In
addition, a zone's brand is used to properly identify the correct application
type at application launch time.  The default brand is determined by the
installed distribution in the global zone.
.sp
.LP
A branded zone will support exactly one brand of non-native binary, which
means that a branded zone provides a single operating environment. Once a
zone has been assigned a brand, that brand cannot be changed or removed.
.sp
.LP
BrandZ extends the zones tools in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A brand is an attribute of a zone, set at zone create time.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The zonecfg tool (see
.BR zonecfg (1M))
is used to set a zone's brand type
and configure the zone.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The zoneadm tool (see
.BR zoneadm (1M))
is used to report a zone's brand
type and administer the zone.
.RE
.SS "Device Support"
.sp
.LP
The devices supported by each zone are documented in the man pages and other
documentation for that brand. The zones infrastructure detects any attempt to
add an unsupported device and issues a warning to the administrator. If the
administrator chooses to add an unsupported device despite that warning, that
device might or might not work as expected. The configuration will be
untested and unsupported.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzoneu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mdb (1),
.BR zlogin (1),
.BR zonename (1),
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR in.rlogind (1M),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR zoneadm (1M),
.BR zonecfg (1M),
.BR kill (2),
.BR priocntl (2),
.BR getzoneid (3C),
.BR ucred_get (3C),
.BR getzoneid (3C),
.BR proc (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR lx (5),
.BR native (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR zones (5),
.BR lx_systrace (7D),
.BR crgetzoneid (9F)
