'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crypt_unix 5 "6 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
crypt_unix \- traditional UNIX crypt algorithm
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_unix
algorithm is the traditional UNIX crypt algorithm. It is
not considered sufficiently secure for current systems and is provided for
backwards compatibility. The
.BR crypt_sunmd5 (5),
.BR crypt_bsdmd5 (5),
or
.BR crypt_bsdbf (5)
algorithm should be used instead.
.sp
.LP
The algorithm identifier for
.BR policy.conf (4)
is
.BR __unix__ .
There is
no entry in
.BR crypt.conf (4)
for this algorithm.
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_unix
algorithm is internal to
.B libc
and provides the
string encoding function used by
.BR crypt (3C)
when the first character of
the salt is not a "$".
.sp
.LP
This algorithm is based on a one-way encryption algorithm with variations
intended (among other things) to frustrate use of hardware implementations of
a key search.  Only the first eight characters of the key passed to
.B crypt()
are used with this algorithm; the rest are silently ignored. The
salt is a two-character string chosen from the set [a-zA-Z0-9./].  This string
is used to perturb the hashing algorithm in one of 4096 different ways.
.sp
.LP
The maximum password length for
.B crypt_unix
is 8 characters.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The return value of the
.B crypt_unix
algorithm might not be portable
among standard-conforming systems. See
.BR standards (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR crypt_genhash_impl (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C),
.BR getpassphrase (3C),
.BR crypt.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR policy.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR crypt_bsdbf (5),
.BR crypt_bsdmd5 (5),
.BR crypt_sunmd5 (5),
.BR standards (5)
