'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipkg 5 "30 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
ipkg \- ipkg branded zone
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBipkg\fR brand uses the branded zones framework described in
\fBbrands\fR(5) to run zones installed with the same software as is
installed in the global zone. The system software must always be in sync
with the global zone when using a \fBipkg\fR brand. The system software
packages within the zone are managed using the image packaging system. See
\fBpkg(5)\fR.
.SS "Configuration and Administration"
.sp
.LP
The \fBipkg\fR brand supports the whole root non-global zone model. All of
the required system software and any additional packages are installed into
the private file systems of the zone. The zone must reside on its own
\fBzfs\fR(1M) dataset and only ZFS is supported. The ZFS dataset is created
automatically when the zone is installed or attached. If a ZFS dataset
cannot be created, the zone is not installed or attached.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following \fBipkg\fR brand-specific subcommand options are supported by
\fBzoneadm\fR(1M).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBattach\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIarchive\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB-u\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attach the specified \fBipkg\fR branded zone image into the zone. If
neither \fB-a\fR or \fB-d\fR is specified, the zone's zonepath is assumed to
already be properly installed with the zone's files. \fBzoneadm\fR checks
package levels on the machine to which the zone is to be attached. If the
packages that the zone depends on from the global zone are different (have
different revision numbers) from the dependent packages on the source
machine, \fBzoneadm\fR reports these conflicts and does not perform the
attach. If the destination system has only newer dependent packages (higher
revision numbers) than those on the source system, you can use the
\fB-u\fRoption to update the attached zone to match the revision of the
packages that exist on the new system. With \fB-u\fR, as in the default
behavior, \fBzoneadm\fR does not perform an attach if outdated packages are
found on the target system.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIarchive\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to a \fBcpio\fR(1) or \fBpax\fR(1) \fBxustar\fR archive of an
installed \fBipkg\fR branded zone's zonepath. \fBcpio\fR archives can be
compressed using \fBgzip\fR or \fBbzip2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIpath\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to the zonepath directory of a \fBipkg\fR branded zone's
zonepath.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update the packages for the zone's system software to match the global
zone.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinstall\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcertificate_file\fR] [\fB-k\fR
\fIkey_file\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpublisher\fB=\fIuri\fR] [\fB-e\fR
\fIextrapkg\fR [.\|.\|.]]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBinstall\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIarchive\fR] | [\fB-d\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB-p\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-v\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBipkg\fR brand installer supports installing the zone from either the
software repository or from an image of an installed system running the same
release. This can be a \fBcpio\fR(1) or \fBpax\fR(1) \fBxustar\fR archive.
The \fBcpio\fR archive can be compressed with \fBgzip\fR or \fBbzip2\fR. The
image can also be a path to the top-level of a system's root tree, or a
pre-existing zone path.
.sp
If neither the \fB-a\fR or \fB-d\fR option is used, the zone is installed
from the repository.
.sp
To install the zone from a system image either the \fB-a\fR or \fB-d\fR is
required. Either the \fB-u\fR or \fB-p\fR option is also required in this
case.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-a\fR \fIarchive\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The path to a \fBcpio\fR(1) or \fBpax\fR(1) \fBxustar\fRarchive of an
installed system. \fBcpio\fR archives may be compressed using \fBgzip\fR or
\fBbzip2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIcertificate_file\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The path to the certificate file needed for accessing the repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-d\fR \fIpath\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The path to the root directory of an installed system. If path is a hyphen
(\fB-\fR), the zonepath is presumed to be already populated with the system
image
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-e\fR \fIpackage_name\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The name of a package to install into the zone. The \fB-e\fR option is used
to specify an additional package to install, in addition to the base set of
software which is always installed into the zone. Multiple \fB-e\fR options
can be used
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-k\fR \fIkey_file\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The path to the key file needed for accessing the repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIpublisher\fB=\fIuri\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The name of a software repository publisher and its associated URI to use
to install the zone instead of the default global zone's repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-p\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Preserve the system configuration after installing the zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Install silently
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-u\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Run \fBsys-unconfig\fR(1M) on the zone after installing it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-v\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Verbose output from the install process.
.RE

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWzoneu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBpax\fR(1), \fBzfs\fR(1M), \fBzlogin\fR(1),
\fBzonename\fR(1), \fBsys-unconfig\fR(1M), \fBzoneadm\fR(1M),
\fBzonecfg\fR(1M),, \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBbrands\fR(5),
\fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fBpkg(5)\fR, available in the IPS consolidation
