'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mech_spnego 5 "4 Oct 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
mech_spnego \- Simple and Protected GSS-API Negotiation Mechanism
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/usr/lib/gss/mech_spnego.so.1
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The SPNEGO security mechanism for " GSS - API " allows"
\fBGSS\fR-\fBAPI\fR applications to negotiate the actual security mechanism
to be used in the \fBGSS\fR-\fBAPI\fR session.
.B mech_spnego.so.1
is a
shared object module that is dynamically opened by applications that specify
the SPNEGO Object Identifier (\fBOID\fR) in calls to the \fBGSS\fR-\fBAPI\fR
functions (see
.BR libgss (3LIB)).
.sp
.LP
SPNEGO is described by IETF RFC 2478 and is intended to be used in
.RB "environments where multiple " GSS - API " mechanisms are available to"
the client or server and neither side knows what mechanisms are supported by
the other.
.sp
.LP
When SPNEGO is used, it selects the list of mechanisms to advertise by
reading the
.B GSS
mechanism configuration file,
.B /etc/gss/mech
(see
.BR mech (4)),
and by listing all active mechanisms except for itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
SPNEGO may be configured to function in two ways. The first way is to
interoperate with Microsoft SSPI clients and servers that use the Microsoft
"\fBNegotiate\fR" method, which is also based on SPNEGO. The Microsoft
"\fBNegotiate\fR" mechanism does not strictly follow the IETF RFC.
Therefore, use special handling in order to enable full interoperability. In
order to interoperate, place option "\fB[ msinterop ]\fR" at the end of the
SPNEGO line in
.BR /etc/gss/mech .
.sp
.LP
This is an example (from
.BR /etc/gss/mech ):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBspnego	1.3.6.1.5.5.2	mech_spnego.so	[ msinterop ]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Without the "\fB[ msinterop ]\fR" option, \fBmech_spnego\fR will follow the
strict IETF RFC 2478 specification and will not be able to negotiate with
Microsoft applications that try to use the SSPI "\fBNegotiate\fR"
mechanism.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
.B mech_spnego.so.1
has no public interfaces. It is only activated and
used through the \fBGSS\fR-\fBAPI\fR interface provided by \fBlibgss.so.1\fR
(see
.BR libgss (3LIB)).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/gss/mech_spnego.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/sparcv9/gss/mech_spnego.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SPARC 64-bit shared object file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/amd64/gss/mech_spnego.so.1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit shared object file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUWNspnego
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (3),
.BR libgss (3LIB),
.BR mech (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Security for Developers Guide
