'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_unix_cred 5 "9 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_unix_cred \- PAM user credential authentication module for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpam_unix_cred.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_unix_cred
module implements
.BR pam_sm_setcred "(3PAM). It"
provides functions that establish user credential information. It is a
module separate from the
.BR pam_unix_auth (5)
module to allow replacement
of the authentication functionality independently from the credential
functionality.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_unix_cred
module must always be stacked along with whatever
authentication module is used to ensure correct credential setting.
.sp
.LP
Authentication service modules must implement both
.B pam_sm_authenticate()
and
.BR pam_sm_setcred() .
.sp
.LP
.B pam_sm_authenticate()
in this module always returns
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
.sp
.LP
.B pam_sm_setcred()
initializes the user's project, privilege sets and
initializes or updates the user's audit context if it hasn't already been
initialized. The following flags may be set in the flags field:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_ESTABLISH_CRED
.ad
.br
.na
.B PAM_REFRESH_CRED
.ad
.br
.na
.B PAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Initializes the user's project to the project specified in
.BR PAM_RESOURCE ,
or if
.B PAM_RESOURCE
is not specified, to the user's
default project. Establishes the user's privilege sets.
.sp
If the audit context is not already initialized and auditing is configured,
these flags cause the context to be initialized to that of the user
specified in
.B PAM_AUSER
(if any) merged with the user specified in
.B PAM_USER
and host specified in
.BR PAM_RHOST .
If
.B PAM_RHOST
is
not specified,
.B PAM_TTY
specifies the local terminal name. Attributing
audit to
.B PAM_AUSER
and merging
.B PAM_USER
is required for
correctly attributing auditing when the system entry is performed by another
user that can be identified as trustworthy.
.sp
If the audit context is already initialized, the
.B PAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED
flag merges the current audit context with that
of the user specified in
.BR PAM_USER .
.B PAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED
is
useful when a user is assuming a new identity, as with
.BR su (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_DELETE_CRED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This flag has no effect and always returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are interpreted:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Provides
.BR syslog (3C)
debugging information at the \fBLOG_DEBUG\fR
level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nowarn
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Disables any warning messages.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of
.BR pam_sm_setcred() ,
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is
returned. The following error codes are returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_UNAVAIL
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Underlying authentication service cannot retrieve user credentials
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_EXPIRED
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User credentials have expired
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User is unknown to the authentication service
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_CRED_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Failure in setting user credentials
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_BUF_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Memory buffer error
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SYSTEM_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
System error
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following values are returned from
.BR pam_sm_authenticate() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_IGNORE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Ignores this module regardless of the control flag
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ssh (1),
.BR su (1M),
.BR settaskid (2),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR getprojent (3PROJECT),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_item (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR syslog (3C),
\fBsetproject\fR(3PROJECT),\fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
.BR project (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_session (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.BR libpam (3LIB)
are MT-Safe only if each thread within
the multi-threaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
.sp
.LP
If this module is replaced, the audit context and credential may not be
correctly configured.
