'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_sample 5 "4 Apr 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_sample \- a sample PAM module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/security/pam_sample.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The SAMPLE service module for
.B PAM
is divided into four components:
authentication, account management, password management, and session
management. The sample module is a shared object that is dynamically loaded
to provide the necessary functionality.
.SH SAMPLE AUTHENTICATION COMPONENT
.sp
.LP
The SAMPLE authentication module provides functions to test the
.BR PAM
framework functionality using the
.BR pam_sm_authenticate "(3PAM) call. The"
SAMPLE module implementation of the \fBpam_sm_authenticate\fR(3PAM) function
compares the user entered password with the password set in the
\fBpam.conf\fR(4) file, or the string "test" if a default test password has
not been set. The following options can be passed in to the SAMPLE
Authentication module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Syslog debugging information at the
.B LOG_DEBUG
level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pass=newone
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Sets the password to be "newone".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B first_pass_good
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The first password is always good when used with the use_first_pass or
try_first_pass option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B first_pass_bad
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The first password is always bad when used with the use_first_pass or
try_first_pass option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B always_fail
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Always returns
.BR PAM_AUTH_ERR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B always_succeed
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Always returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B always_ignore
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Always returns
.BR PAM_IGNORE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B use_first_pass
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Use the user's initial password (entered when the user is authenticated to
the first authentication module in the stack) to authenticate with the
SAMPLE module. If the passwords do not match, or if this is the first
authentication module in the stack, quit and do not prompt the user for a
password. It is recommended that this option only be used if the SAMPLE
authentication module is designated as
.I optional
in the \fBpam.conf\fR
configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B try_first_pass
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Use the user's initial password (entered when the user is authenticated to
the first authentication module in the stack) to authenticate with the
SAMPLE module. If the passwords do not match, or if this is the first
authentication module in the stack, prompt the user for a password.
.sp
The SAMPLE module \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM) function always returns
.B PAM_SUCCESS.
.RE

.SH SAMPLE ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
.sp
.LP
The SAMPLE Account Management Component implements a simple access control
scheme that limits machine access to a list of authorized users. The list of
authorized users is supplied as option arguments to the entry for the SAMPLE
account management
.B PAM
module in the
.B pam.conf
file. Note that
the module always permits access to the root super user.
.sp
.LP
The option field syntax to limit access is shown below: allow=
.I name[,name]
allow= \fIname [allow=name]\fR
.sp
.LP
The example \fBpam.conf\fR show below permits only larry to \fBlogin\fR
directly.
.B rlogin
is allowed only for don and larry. Once a user is
logged in, the user can use
.B su
if the user are sam or eric.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(5.5i)
lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(5.5i)
.
loginaccountrequirepam_sample.so.1allow=larry
dtloginaccountrequirepam_sample.so.1allow=larry
rloginaccountrequirepam_sample.so.1allow=don allow=larry
suaccountrequirepam_sample.so.1allow=sam,eric
.TE

.sp
.LP
The debug and nowarn options are also supported.
.SH SAMPLE PASSWORD MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
.sp
.LP
The SAMPLE Password Management Component function (
.BR pam_sm_chauthtok (3PAM)),
always returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS.
.SH SAMPLE SESSION MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
.sp
.LP
The SAMPLE Session Management Component functions (
.BR pam_sm_open_session (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_close_session (3PAM))
always
return
.BR PAM_SUCCESS.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_chauthtok (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_close_session (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_open_session (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm_setcred (3PAM),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
This module should never be used outside of a closed debug environment. The
examples of the \fBuse_first_pass\fR and \fBtry_first_pass\fR options are
obsolete for all other Solaris delivered PAM service modules
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in
.B libpam()
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multi-threaded application uses its own
.B PAM
handle.
