'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_dhkeys 5 "21 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_dhkeys \- authentication Diffie-Hellman keys management module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpam_dhkeys.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_dhkeys.so.1
service module provides functionality to two
\fBPAM\fR services: Secure \fBRPC\fR authentication and Secure \fBRPC\fR
authentication token management.
.sp
.LP
Secure RPC authentication differs from regular unix authentication because
NIS+ and other \fBONC RPC\fRs use Secure RPC as the underlying security
mechanism. 
.sp
.LP
The following options may be passed to the module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
.BR syslog (3C)
debugging information at
.B LOG_DEBUG
level
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nowarn
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Turn off warning messages
.RE

.SS "Authentication Services"
.sp
.LP
If the user has Diffie-Hellman keys,
.B pam_sm_authenticate()
establishes
secret keys for the user specified by the
.B PAM_USER
(equivalent to
running
.BR keylogin (1)),
using the authentication token found in the
\fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR item. Not being able to establish the secret keys results in
an authentication error if the NIS+ repository is used to authenticate the
user and the NIS+ table permissions require secure RPC credentials to access
the password field. If
.B pam_sm_setcred()
is called with
\fBPAM_ESTABLISH_CRED\fR and the user's secure \fBRPC\fR credentials need to
be established, these credentials are set. This is equivalent to running
.BR keylogin (1).
.sp
.LP
If the credentials could not be set and
.B PAM_SILENT
is not specified, a
diagnostic message is displayed. If
.B pam_setcred()
is called with
.BR PAM_DELETE_CRED ,
the user's secure
.B RPC
credentials are unset. This
is equivalent to running
.BR keylogout (1).
.sp
.LP
\fBPAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED\fR and \fBPAM_REFRESH_CRED\fR are not supported and
return
.BR PAM_IGNORE .
.SS "Authentication Token Management"
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_chauthtok()
implementation checks whether the old login
password decrypts the users secret keys. If it doesn't this module prompts the
user for an old Secure
.B RPC
password and stores it in a pam data item
called
.BR SUNW_OLDRPCPASS .
This data item can be used by the store module
to effectively update the users secret keys.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The authentication service returns the following error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Credentials set successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_IGNORE
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Credentials not needed to access the password repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
\fBPAM_USER\fR is not set, or the user is unknown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
No secret keys were set.
.B PAM_AUTHTOK
is not set, no credentials are
present or there is a wrong password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_BUF_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Module ran out of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_SYSTEM_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The NIS\(ma+ subsystem failed .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The authentication token management returns the following error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR 
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Old
.B rpc
password is set in
.BR SUNW_OLDRPCPASS
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User in
.B PAM_USER
is unknown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_AUTHTOK_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User did not provide a password that decrypts the secret keys.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PAM_BUF_ERR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Module ran out of memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR keylogout (1),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_authenticate (3PAM),
.BR pam_chauthtok (3PAM),
.BR pam_setcred (3PAM),
.BR pam_get_item (3PAM),
.BR pam_set_data (3PAM),
.BR pam_get_data (3PAM),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR libpam (3LIB),
\fBpam.conf\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_session (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only if each thread within
the multi-threaded application uses its own PAM handle.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR pam_unix (5)
module is no longer supported. Similar functionality is
provided by
.BR pam_authtok_check (5),
.BR pam_authtok_get (5),
.BR pam_authtok_store (5),
.BR pam_dhkeys (5),
.BR pam_passwd_auth (5),
.BR pam_unix_account (5),
.BR pam_unix_auth (5),
and
.BR pam_unix_session (5).
