'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pam_allow 5 "25 Aug 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_allow \- PAM authentication, account, session and password management
PAM module to allow operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpam_allow.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pam_allow
module implements all the PAM service module functions
and returns
.B PAM_SUCCESS
for all calls. Opposite functionality is
available in the
.BR pam_deny (5)
module.
.sp
.LP
Proper Solaris authentication operation requires
.BR pam_unix_cred (5)
be
stacked above
.BR pam_allow .
.sp
.LP
The following options are interpreted:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B debug
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Provides \fBsyslog\fR(3C) debugging information at the \fBLOG_AUTH |
LOG_DEBUG\fR level.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B PAM_SUCCESS
is always returned.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Allowing
.BR "ssh none"
.sp
.LP
The following example is a
.B pam.conf
fragment that illustrates a
sample for allowing
.B "ssh none"
authentication:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
sshd-none  auth    required      pam_unix_cred.so.1
sshd-none  auth    sufficient    pam_allow.so.1
sshd-none  account sufficient    pam_allow.so.1
sshd-none  session sufficient    pam_allow.so.1
sshd-none  password sufficient   pam_allow.so.1
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Allowing Kiosk Automatic Login Service
.sp
.LP
The following is example is a
.B pam.conf
fragment that illustrates a
sample for allowing
.B gdm
kiosk auto login:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
gdm-autologin auth  required    pam_unix_cred.so.1
gdm-autologin auth  sufficient  pam_allow.so.1
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpam (3LIB),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR pam_sm (3PAM),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR pam_deny (5),
.BR pam_unix_cred (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only if each thread within
the multi-threaded application uses its own PAM handle.
.sp
.LP
This module is intended to be used to either allow access to specific
services names, or to all service names not specified (by specifying it as
the default service stack).
