'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH regexp 5 "20 May 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
regexp, compile, step, advance \- simple regular expression compile and
match routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#define INIT \fIdeclarations\fR
#define GETC(void) \fIgetc code\fR
#define PEEKC(void) \fIpeekc code\fR
#define UNGETC(void) \fIungetc code\fR
#define RETURN(\fIptr\fR) \fIreturn code\fR
#define ERROR(\fIval\fR) \fIerror code\fR

extern char *\fIloc1\fR, *\fIloc2\fR, *\fIlocs\fR;

#include <regexp.h>

\fBchar *\fBcompile\fR(\fBchar *\fIinstring\fR, \fBchar *\fIexpbuf\fR, \fBconst char *\fIendfug\fR, \fBint\fR \fIeof\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstep\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR, \fBconst char *\fIexpbuf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBadvance\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR, \fBconst char *\fIexpbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Regular Expressions (REs) provide a mechanism to select specific strings
from a set of character strings. The Simple Regular Expressions described
below differ from the  Internationalized Regular Expressions described on
the
.BR regex (5)
manual page in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
only Basic Regular Expressions are supported
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the Internationalization features\(emcharacter class, equivalence class,
and multi-character collation\(emare not supported.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The functions
.BR step() ,
.BR advance() ,
and
.B compile()
are
general purpose regular expression matching routines to be used in programs
that perform regular expression matching. These functions are defined by the
\fB<regexp.h>\fR header.
.sp
.LP
The functions
.B step()
and
.B advance()
do pattern matching given a
character string and a compiled regular expression as input.
.sp
.LP
The function
.B compile()
takes as input a regular expression as defined
below and produces a compiled expression that can be used with
.BR step()
or
.BR advance() .
.SS "Basic Regular Expressions"
.sp
.LP
A regular expression specifies a set of character strings. A member of this
set of strings is said to be matched by the regular expression. Some
characters have special meaning when used in a regular expression; other
characters stand for themselves.
.sp
.LP
The following \fIone-character RE\fRs match a \fIsingle\fR
character:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1.1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
An ordinary character (
.I not
one of those discussed in 1.2 below) is a
one-character RE that matches itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1.2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A backslash (\fB\|\e\fR\|) followed by any special character is a
one-character RE that matches the special character itself. The special
characters are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a.
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB\&.\fR, \fB*\fR, \fB[\fR\|, and \fB\e\fR (period, asterisk, left square
bracket, and backslash, respectively), which are always special,
\fIexcept\fR when they appear within square brackets (\fB[\|]\fR; see 1.4
below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b.
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
^ (caret or circumflex), which is special at the
.I beginning
of an
\fIentire\fR RE (see 4.1 and 4.3 below), or when it immediately follows the
left of a pair of square brackets (\fB[\|]\fR) (see 1.4 below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c.
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB$\fR (dollar sign), which is special at the \fBend\fR of an \fIentire\fR
RE (see 4.2 below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d.
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
The character used to bound (that is, delimit) an entire RE, which is
special for that RE (for example, see how slash (\fB/\fR) is used in the
\fBg\fR command, below.)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1.3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A period (\fB\&.\fR) is a one-character RE that matches any character
except new-line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1.4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A non-empty string of characters enclosed in square brackets (\fB[\|]\fR)
is a one-character RE that matches
.I "any one"
character in that string.
If, however, the first character of the string is a circumflex (^), the
one-character RE matches any character
.I except
new-line and the
remaining characters in the string. The ^ has this special meaning
\fIonly\fR if it occurs first in the string. The minus (\fB-\fR) may be used
to indicate a range of consecutive characters; for example,
.B [0-9]
is
equivalent to
.BR [0123456789] .
The
.B -
loses this special meaning if
it occurs first (after an initial ^, if any) or last in the string. The
right square bracket (\fB]\fR) does not terminate such a string when it is
the first character within it (after an initial ^, if any); for example,
\fB[\|]a-f]\fR matches either a right square bracket (\fB]\fR) or one of the
\fBASCII\fR letters \fBa\fR through \fBf\fR inclusive. The four characters
listed in 1.2.a above stand for themselves within such a string of
characters.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following rules may be used to construct REs from one-character REs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A one-character RE is a RE that matches whatever the one-character RE
matches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A one-character RE followed by an asterisk (\fB*\fR) is a RE that matches
\fB0\fR or more occurrences of the one-character RE. If there is any choice,
the longest leftmost string that permits a match is chosen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A one-character RE followed by \fB\e{\fIm\fB\e}\fR,
\fB\e{\fIm,\fB\e}\fR, or \fB\e{\fIm,n\fB\e}\fR is a RE that
matches a
.I range
of occurrences of the one-character RE. The values of
\fIm\fR and \fIn\fR must be non-negative integers less than 256;
\fB\e{\fIm\fB\e}\fR matches \fIexactly m\fR occurrences;
\fB\e{\fIm,\fB\e}\fR matches \fIat least\fR \fIm\fR occurrences;
\fB\e{\fIm,n\fB\e}\fR matches \fIany number\fR of occurrences
\fIbetween m\fR and \fIn\fR inclusive. Whenever a choice exists, the
RE matches as many occurrences as possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.4
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The concatenation of REs is a RE that matches the concatenation of the
strings matched by each component of the RE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.5
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A RE enclosed between the character sequences \fB\e\|(\fR and \fB\e\|)\fR
is a RE that matches whatever the unadorned RE matches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2.6
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The expression \fB\e\|\fIn\fR matches the same string of characters as
was matched by an expression enclosed between \fB\e\|(\fR and \fB\e\|)\fR
\fIearlier\fR in the same RE. Here \fIn\fR is a digit; the sub-expression
specified is that beginning with the \fIn\fR-th occurrence of \fB\|\e\|(\fR
counting from the left. For example, the expression
^\|\fB\e\|(\|.\|*\|\e\|)\|\e\|1\|$\fR matches a line consisting of two
repeated appearances of the same string.
.RE

.sp
.LP
An RE may be constrained to match words.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3.1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
\fB\e\|<\fR constrains a RE to match the beginning of a string or to follow
a character that is not a digit, underscore, or letter. The first character
matching the RE must be a digit, underscore, or letter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3.2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
\fB\e\|>\fR constrains a RE to match the end of a string or to precede a
character that is not a digit, underscore, or letter.
.RE

.sp
.LP
An
.I "entire RE"
may be constrained to match only an initial
segment or final segment of a line (or both).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4.1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A circumflex (^) at the beginning of an entire RE constrains that RE to
match an
.I initial
segment of a line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4.2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A dollar sign (\fB$\fR) at the end of an entire RE constrains that RE to
match a \fIfinal\fR segment of a line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4.3
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
The construction ^\fIentire RE\fR\|\fB$\fR constrains the entire RE to
match the entire line.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The null RE (for example, \fB//\|\fR) is equivalent to the last RE
encountered.
.SS "Addressing with REs"
.sp
.LP
Addresses are constructed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
The character "\fB\&.\fR" addresses the current line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
The character "\fB$\fR" addresses the last line of the buffer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
A decimal number
.I n
addresses the \fIn\fR-th line of the buffer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
\fI\&'x\fR addresses the line marked with the mark name character \fIx\fR,
which must be an ASCII lower-case letter (\fBa\fR-\fBz\fR). Lines are marked
with the
.B k
command described below.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
A RE enclosed by slashes (\fB/\fR) addresses the first line found by
searching \fIforward\fR from the line \fIfollowing\fR the current line
toward the end of the buffer and stopping at the first line containing a
string matching the RE. If necessary, the search wraps around to the
beginning of the buffer and continues up to and including the current line,
so that the entire buffer is searched.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
A RE enclosed in question marks (\fB?\fR) addresses the first line found by
searching
.I backward
from the line
.I preceding
the current line
toward the beginning of the buffer and stopping at the first line containing
a string matching the RE. If necessary, the search wraps around to the end
of the buffer and continues up to and including the current line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
7.
An address followed by a plus sign (\fB+\fR) or a minus sign (\fB-\fR)
followed by a decimal number specifies that address plus (respectively
minus) the indicated number of lines. A shorthand for .+5 is .5.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
8.
If an address begins with
.B +
or
.BR - ,
the addition or subtraction
is taken with respect to the current line; for example,
.B -5
is
understood to mean
.BR \&.-5 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
9.
If an address ends with
.B +
or
.BR - ,
then 1 is added to or
subtracted from the address, respectively. As a consequence of this rule and
of Rule 8, immediately above, the address
.B -
refers to the line
preceding the current line. (To maintain compatibility with earlier versions
of the editor, the character ^ in addresses is entirely equivalent to
\fB-\fR\&.) Moreover, trailing \fB+\fR and \fB-\fR characters have a
cumulative effect, so
.B --
refers to the current line less 2.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
10.
For convenience, a comma (\fB,\fR) stands for the address pair \fB1,$\fR,
while a semicolon (\fB;\fR) stands for the pair \fB\&.,$\fR.
.RE
.SS "Characters With Special Meaning"
.sp
.LP
Characters that have special meaning except when they appear within square
brackets (\fB[\|]\fR) or are preceded by \fB\e\fR are:  \fB\&.\fR, \fB*\fR,
\fB[\|\fR, \fB\e\fR\|. Other special characters, such as \fB$\fR have
special meaning in more restricted contexts.
.sp
.LP
The character
.B ^
at the beginning of an expression permits a
successful match only immediately after a newline, and the character \fB$\fR
at the end of an expression requires a trailing newline.
.sp
.LP
Two characters have special meaning only when used within square brackets.
The character
.B -
denotes a range,
\fB[\|\fIc\fB-\fIc\fB]\fR, unless it is just after the open
bracket or before the closing bracket, \fB[\|-\fIc\fB]\fR or
\fB[\|\fIc\fB-]\fR in which case it has no special meaning. When used
within brackets, the character
.B ^
has the meaning \fIcomplement of\fR
if it immediately follows the open bracket (example:
\fB[^\fIc\fB]\|\fR); elsewhere between brackets (example:
\fB[\fIc\fB^]\|\fR) it stands for the ordinary character \fB^\fR.
.sp
.LP
The special meaning of the \fB\e\fR operator can be escaped only by
preceding it with another \fB\e\fR\|, for example \fB\e\e\fR\|.
.SS "Macros"
.sp
.LP
Programs must have the following five macros declared before the
\fB#include <regexp.h>\fR statement. These macros are used by the
\fBcompile()\fR routine. The macros \fBGETC\fR,
.BR PEEKC ,
and
\fBUNGETC\fR operate on the regular expression given as input to
.BR compile() .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETC
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This macro returns the value of the next character (byte) in the regular
expression pattern. Successive calls to
.B GETC
should return successive
characters of the regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PEEKC
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This macro returns the next character (byte) in the regular expression.
Immediately successive calls to
.B PEEKC
should return the same
character, which should also be the next character returned by
.BR GETC .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UNGETC
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This macro causes the argument
.B c
to be returned by the next call to
\fBGETC\fR and
.BR PEEKC .
No more than one character of pushback is ever
needed and this character is guaranteed to be the last character read by
.BR GETC .
The return value of the macro
.B UNGETC(c)
is always
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBRETURN(\fIptr\fB)\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This macro is used on normal exit of the
.B compile()
routine. The value
of the argument
.I ptr
is a pointer to the character after the last
character of the compiled regular expression. This is useful to programs
which have memory allocation to manage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBERROR(\fIval\fB)\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This macro is the abnormal return from the
.B compile()
routine. The
argument
.I val
is an error number (see
.B ERRORS
below for meanings).
This call should never return.
.RE

.SS "\fBcompile()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The syntax of the
.B compile()
routine is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcompile(\fIinstring\fB,\fR \fIexpbuf\fB,\fR \fIendbuf\fB,\fR \fIeof\fB)\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The first parameter,
.IR instring ,
is never used explicitly by the
\fBcompile()\fR routine but is useful for programs that pass down different
.RB "pointers to input characters. It is sometimes used in the" " INIT"
declaration (see below). Programs which call functions to input characters
or have characters in an external array can pass down a value of \fB(char
*)0\fR for this parameter.
.sp
.LP
The next parameter,
.IR expbuf ,
is a character pointer. It points to the
place where the compiled regular expression will be placed.
.sp
.LP
The parameter \fIendbuf\fR is one more than the highest address where the
compiled regular expression may be placed. If the compiled expression cannot
fit in \fB(endbuf-expbuf)\fR bytes, a call to
.B ERROR(50)
is made.
.sp
.LP
The parameter \fIeof\fR is the character which marks the end of the regular
expression. This character is usually a
.BR / .
.sp
.LP
Each program that includes the
.B <regexp.h>
header file must have a
\fB#define\fR statement for
.BR INIT .
It is used for dependent
declarations and initializations. Most often it is used to set a register
variable to point to the beginning of the regular expression so that this
register variable can be used in the declarations for
.BR GETC ,
.BR PEEKC ,
and
.BR UNGETC .
Otherwise it can be used to declare external
variables that might be used by
.BR GETC ,
\fBPEEKC\fR and \fBUNGETC\fR.
(See
.B EXAMPLES
below.)
.SS "step(\|), advance(\|)"
.sp
.LP
The first parameter to the
.B step()
and
.B advance()
functions is a
pointer to a string of characters to be checked for a match. This string
should be null terminated.
.sp
.LP
The second parameter,
.IR expbuf ,
is the compiled regular expression
which was obtained by a call to the function
.BR compile() .
.sp
.LP
The function
.B step()
returns non-zero if some substring of
\fIstring\fR matches the regular expression in \fIexpbuf\fR and  \fB0\fR if
there is no match. If there is a match, two external character pointers are
set as a side effect to the call to
.BR step() .
The variable
.BR loc1
points to the first character that matched the regular expression; the
variable
.B loc2
points to the character after the last character that
matches the regular expression. Thus if the regular expression matches the
entire input string,
.B loc1
will point to the first character of
\fIstring\fR and \fBloc2\fR will point to the null at the end of
.IR string .
.sp
.LP
The function
.B advance()
returns non-zero if the initial substring of
\fIstring\fR matches the regular expression in
.IR expbuf .
If there is a
match, an external character pointer,
.BR loc2 ,
is set as a side effect.
The variable
.B loc2
points to the next character in
.I string
after
the last character that matched.
.sp
.LP
When
.B advance()
encounters a
.B *
or \fB\e{ \e}\fR sequence in the
regular expression, it will advance its pointer to the string to be matched
as far as possible and will recursively call itself trying to match the rest
of the string to the rest of the regular expression. As long as there is no
match,
.B advance()
will back up along the string until it finds a match
or reaches the point in the string that initially matched the
.B *
or
\fB\e{ \e}\fR\&. It is sometimes desirable to stop this backing up before
the initial point in the string is reached. If the external character
pointer
.B locs
is equal to the point in the string at sometime during
the backing up process,
.B advance()
will break out of the loop that
backs up and will return zero.
.sp
.LP
The external variables
.BR circf ,
.BR sed ,
and
.B nbra
are
reserved.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using Regular Expression Macros and Calls
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of how the regular expression macros and calls
might be defined by an application program:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define INIT       register char *sp = instring;
#define GETC()     (*sp++)
#define PEEKC()    (*sp)
#define UNGETC(c)  (--sp)
#define RETURN(c)  return;
#define ERROR(c)   regerr()

#include <regexp.h>
 . . .
      (void) compile(*argv, expbuf, &expbuf[ESIZE],'\e0');
 . . .
      if (step(linebuf, expbuf))
                        succeed;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The function
.B compile()
uses the macro
.B RETURN
on success and the
macro
.B ERROR
on failure (see above). The functions
.B step()
and
\fBadvance()\fR return non-zero on a successful match and zero if there is
no match. Errors are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 11
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
range endpoint too large.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 16
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
bad number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 25
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB\e\fR \fIdigit\fR out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 36
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
illegal or missing delimiter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 41
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
no remembered search string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 42
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB\e( \e)\fR imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 43
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
too many \fB\e(\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 44
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
more than 2 numbers given in \fB\e{ \e}\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 45
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB}\fR expected after \fB\e\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 46
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
first number exceeds second in \fB\e{ \e}\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 49
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
\fB[ ]\fR imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 50
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
regular expression overflow.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR regex (5)
