'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH smf_restarter 5 "23 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
smf_restarter \- service management facility conventions for restarters
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
All service instances in the service management facility must be managed by
a restarter. This manual page describes configuration, functionality, and
reporting characteristics that are common to all restarters in the
framework. Characteristics specific to a particular restarter are described
in the restarter's man page.
.sp
.LP
For each managed service, a restarter relies on retrieving properties on
the service instance to determine configuration. The restarter manages a set
of property groups to communicate the current disposition of a service with
display tools such as
.BR svcs (1).
.SS "Service Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The common restarter configuration for all services is captured in the
.B general
property group. This group includes the following required and
optional property settings.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B enabled
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This is a required property. If set, the restarter of an instance attempts
to maintain availability of the service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B restarter
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This is an optional property that allows the specification of an alternate
restarter to manage the service instance. If the restarter property is empty
or absent, the restarter defaults to
.BR svc.startd (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B single_instance
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
This is an optional property. When set, only one instance of the service is
allowed to transition to an online or degraded status at any time.
.RE

.SS "Service Reporting"
.sp
.LP
All restarters report status using the
.B restarter
property group,
which includes the following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B next_state
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The current state and next state, if currently in transition, for instances
stored in these properties. See
.BR smf (5)
for a description of the
potential states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auxiliary_state
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
An astring with no spaces that contains a precise term to describe the full
restarter-specific state in combination with the restarter state property.
The auxiliary state cannot always be set and is always cleared during
transition out of any state. Each restarter must define the precise list of
auxiliary states it uses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B state_timestamp
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The time when the current state was reached.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B contract
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The primary process contract ID, if any, under which the service instance
is executing.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svcs (1),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR service_bundle (4),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_method (5)
