'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH smf_bootstrap 5 "25 Sep 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
smf_bootstrap \- service management facility boot, packaging, and
compatibility behavior
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The service management facility establishes conventions for delivering
service manifests, incorporating service manifest changes, describing
service configuration stability, using service configuration overrides, and
the use of service profiles.
.SS "Manifest Loading at Boot"
.sp
.LP
.RB "The " svc:/system/manifest-import:default " service uses " svccfg (1M)
to import certain manifest files from the
.B /var/svc/manifest
directory
tree into the service configuration repository. The service imports files
that it has not imported previously and those files which have changed since
the last time they were imported by the service. When a manifest is imported
by the service, a hash of the file that includes its contents is recorded in
a property group of the
.B svc:/smf/manifest
service. The
.B manifest-import
service uses the hash to determine whether the file
has changed. See
.BR svccfg (1M)
for information on the \fBsvccfg import\fR
behavior for services that already exist in the repository.
.SS "Manifest Handling During Packaging Operations"
.sp
.LP
Service manifests within packages should be identified with the class
.BR manifest .
Class action scripts that install and remove service
manifests are included in the packaging subsystem. When
.BR pkgadd (1M)
is
invoked, the service manifest is imported.
.sp
.LP
When
.BR pkgrm (1M)
is invoked, instances in the manifest that are
disabled are deleted. Instances in the manifest that are online or degraded
are disabled first and then deleted. Any services in the manifest with no
remaining instances are also deleted.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -R
option is supplied to
.BR pkgadd "(1M) or"
.BR pkgrm (1M),
the actions described in this section will be done when the system is next
rebooted with that alternate root path.
.SS "Stability Declarations"
.sp
.LP
Each service group and each property group delivered in a manifest should
declare a stability level based on
.BR attributes (5)
definitions. With
knowledge of the stability level, an application developer can determine the
likelihood that feature development based on the existence or components of
a service or object is likely to remain functional across a release
boundary.
.sp
.LP
In an
.BR smf (5)
context, the stability value also identifies the
expected scope of the changes to properties within the property group across
a release boundary for the service, which can include patches for that
service. The following two sections discuss this in more detail.
.SS "Property Overrides"
.sp
.LP
The
.BR service_bundle (4)
document type definition includes an override
attribute that is applicable to each property in a service manifest. If set
to
.BR true ,
the attribute instructs
.BR svccfg (1M)
and other manifest
import tools to replace the current value of a property in the repository
with the one from the manifest. If the override attribute is absent or
present but set to
.BR false ,
the current value in the repository is
preserved.
.sp
.LP
Property groups declared as Stable do not contain override attributes on
enclosed properties. Property groups declared as Evolving do so only to
correct an erroneous setting. Property groups declared as Unstable can
contain overrides on any property. The exception to this behavior is for the
stability property itself, which can be modified to identify incipient
change to the interface presented by the service.
.SS "Property Group Deletion"
.sp
.LP
The
.BR service_bundle (4)
document type definition includes a delete
attribute, applicable to each property group in a service manifest. If set
to
.BR true ,
the delete attribute instructs
.BR svccfg (1M)
and other
manifest import tools to delete this property group from the repository. If
the delete attribute is absent or present but set to
.BR false ,
the
property group in the repository is preserved.
.sp
.LP
Property groups declared as Stable or Evolving are not deleted. Property
groups declared as Unstable can be deleted across any release boundary.
.SS "Profile Application"
.sp
.LP
The first time the existence of each of the three service profiles listed
below is detected,
.BR svc.startd (1M)
automatically applies the profile.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/var/svc/profile/generic.xml
/var/svc/profile/platform.xml
/var/svc/profile/site.xml
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B svc:/smf/manifest
service is used in a similar fashion.
.sp
.LP
Additional service profiles that characterize the activation of various
groups of service instances might be present in
.BR /var/svc/profile .
None
of the
.B /var/svc/profile
profiles are automatically applied to the
repository. A profile can be manually applied or re-applied using
.BR svccfg (1M).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR pkgrm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR service_bundle (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_security (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The present version of
.BR smf (5)
does not support multiple
repositories.
