'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH sticky 5 "1 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
sticky \- mark files for special treatment
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.I "sticky bit"
(file mode bit
.BR 01000 ,
see
.BR chmod (2))
is
used to indicate special treatment of certain files and directories. A
directory for which the sticky bit is set restricts deletion of files it
contains. A file in a sticky directory can only be removed or renamed by a
user who has write permission on the directory, and either owns the file,
owns the directory, has write permission on the file, or is a privileged
user. Setting the sticky bit is useful for directories such as
.BR /tmp ,
which must be publicly writable but should deny users permission to
arbitrarily delete or rename the files of others.
.sp
.LP
If the sticky bit is set on a regular file and no execute bits are set, the
system's page cache will not be used to hold the file's data. This bit is
normally set on swap files of diskless clients so that accesses to these
files do not flush more valuable data from the system's cache. Moreover, by
default such files are treated as swap files, whose inode modification times
may not necessarily be correctly recorded on permanent storage.
.sp
.LP
Any user may create a sticky directory. See
.B chmod
for details about
modifying file modes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR chmod (2),
.BR chown (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR rename (2),
.BR unlink (2)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR mkdir (2)
function will not create a directory with the sticky bit
set.
