'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH Exacct::Object::Group 3PERL "1 Dec 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Perl Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Exacct::Object::Group \- exacct group manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object;
my $ea_grp = Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Group->new(
   & EXT_GROUP | &EXC_DEFAULT | &EXD_GROUP_PROC);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This module is used for manipulating
.BR libexacct "(3LIB) Group objects. A"
.B libexacct
Group object is represented as an opaque reference blessed
into the
.B Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Group
class, which is a
subclass of the
.B Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object
class. The Items within a
Group are stored inside a Perl array. A reference to the array can be
accessed with the inherited
.B value()
method. The individual Items
within a Group can be manipulated with the normal Perl array syntax and
operators. All data elements of the array must be derived from the
.B Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object
class.  Group objects can also be nested
inside each other simply by adding an existing Group as a data Item.
.SS "Constants"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Functions"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Class methods"
.sp
.LP
Class methods include those inherited from the
.B Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object
base class, plus the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B new($catalog, @objects)
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
This method creates and returns a new
.BR Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Group .
The catalog tag can be either an
integer or a
.BR Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Catalog .
The catalog tag should be
a valid catalog tag for a Perl exacct Group object. The \fB@objects\fR
parameter is a list of
.B Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object
to be stored
inside the Group. A copy of all the passed Items is taken and any Group
objects are recursively copied. The contents of the returned Group object
can be accessed with the array returned by the value method.
.RE

.SS "Object methods"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B as_hash()
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
This method returns the contents of the group as a hash reference. It uses
the string value of each item's catalog ID as the hash entry key and the
scalar value returned by
.B value()
as the hash entry value. This form
should be used if  there are no duplicate catalog tags in the group.
.sp
This method and its companion
.B as_hashlist()
are the fastest ways to
access the contents of a Group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B as_hashlist()
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
This method returns the contents of the group as a hash reference. It uses
the string value of each item's catalog id as the hash entry key and an
array of the scalar values returned by
.B value()
as the hash entry value
for all the items that share a common key. This form should be used if there
might be duplicate catalog tags in the group.
.sp
This method and its companion
.B as_hash()
are the fastest ways to
access the contents of a Group.
.RE

.SS "Exports"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpl5u
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Exacct (3PERL),
.BR Exacct::Catalog (3PERL),
.BR Exacct::File (3PERL),
.BR Exacct::Object (3PERL),
.BR Exacct::Object::Item (3PERL),
.BR libexacct (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
