'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH Ucred 3PERL "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Perl Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Ucred \- Perl interface to User Credentials
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Ucred qw(:ALL);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This module provides wrappers for the Ucred-related system and library
calls.
.SS "Constants"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Functions"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_get($pid)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the credential of the process specified by
.BR $pid
if the process exists and the calling process is permitted to obtain the
credentials of that process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B getpeerucred($fd)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If
.B $fd
is a connected connection-oriented TLI endpoint, a connected
.BR SOCK_STREAM ,
or a
.B SOCK_SEQPKT
.RB socket, " getpeerucred()"
returns the user credential of the peer at the time the connection was
established, if availble.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_geteuid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the effective uid of a user credential, if
available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getruid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the real uid of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getsuid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the saved uid of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getegid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the effective group of a user credential, if
available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getrgid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the real group of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getsgid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the saved group of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getgroups($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the list of supplemental groups of a user credential,
if available.An array of groups is returned in
.B ARRAY
context; the
number of groups is returned in
.B SCALAR
context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getprivset($ucred, $which)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the privilege set specified by
.B $which
of a user
credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getpflags($ucred, $flags)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the value of a specific process flag of a user
credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getpid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the process ID of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getprojid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the project ID of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ucred_getzoneid($ucred)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the zone ID of a user credential, if available.
.RE

.SS "Class methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Object methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Exports"
.sp
.LP
By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be
used to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B :SYSCALLS
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.BR ucred_get() ,
.B getpeerucred()
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B :LIBCALLS
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.BR ucred_geteuid() ,
.BR ucred_getruid() ,
.BR ucred_getsuid() ,
.BR ucred_getegid() ,
.BR ucred_getrgid() ,
.BR ucred_getsgid() ,
.BR ucred_getgroups() ,
.BR ucred_getprivset() ,
.BR ucred_getpflags() ,
.BR ucred_getpid() ,
.B ucred_getzone()
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B :ALL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.BR :SYSCALLS() ,
.B :LIBCALLS()
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpl5u
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getpeerucred (3C),
.BR ucred_get (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
