'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi-forceattach 9P "18 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Properties for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi-forceattach, ddi-no-autodetach \- properties controlling driver
attach/detach behavior
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Solaris device drivers are attached by  \fBdevfsadm\fR(1M) and by the
kernel in response to
.BR open (2)
requests from applications. Drivers not
currently in use can be detached when the system experiences memory
pressure. The
.B ddi-forceattach
and
.B ddi-no-autodetach
properties
can be used to customize driver attach/detach behavior.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi-forceattach
is an integer property, to be set globally by
means of the
.BR driver.conf (4)
file. Drivers with this property set to 1
are loaded and attached to all possible instances during system startup. The
driver will not be auto-detached due to system memory pressure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi-no-autodetach
is an integer property to be set globally by
means of the
.BR driver.conf (4)
file or created dynamically by the driver
on a per-instance basis with
.BR ddi_prop_update_int (9F).
When this
property is set to 1, the kernel will not auto-detach driver due to system
memory pressure.
.sp
.LP
Note that
.B ddi-forceattach
implies
.BR ddi-no-autodetach .
Setting
either property to a non-integer value or an integer value not equal to 1
produces undefined results. These properties do not prevent driver detaching
in response to reconfiguration requests, such as executing commands
.BR cfgadm (1M),
.BR modunload (1M),
.BR rem_drv (1M),
and
.BR update_drv (1M).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR driver.conf (4)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
