'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH _lwp_info 2 "8 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_info \- return the time-accounting information of a single LWP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_info\fR(\fBstruct lwpinfo *\fIbuffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR _lwp_info() " function fills the  "
.B lwpinfo
structure pointed
to by
.I buffer
with time-accounting information pertaining to the
calling LWP. This call may be extended in the future to return other
.RB "information to the  " lwpinfo " structure as needed.  The  " lwpinfo 
structure in
.RB < sys/lwp.h >
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
timestruc_t   lwp_utime;
timestruc_t   lwp_stime;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B lwp_utime
member is the CPU time used while executing
instructions in the user space of the calling LWP.
.sp
.LP
The
.B lwp_stime
member is the CPU time used by the system on behalf of
the calling LWP.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.BR _lwp_info() " returns  "
.B 0
and fills
in the
.B lwpinfo
structure pointed to by
.IR buffer .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the following condition is detected,
.B _lwp_info()
returns the
corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I buffer
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Additionally, the
.B _lwp_info()
function will fail for 32-bit
interfaces if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The size of the
.B tv_sec
member of the
.B timestruc_t
type pointed
to by
.B lwp_utime
and
.B lwp_stime
is too small to contain the
correct number of seconds.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR times (2),
.BR attributes (5)
