'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH _lwp_kill 2 "8 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_kill \- send a signal to a LWP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_kill\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_kill()
function sends a signal to the LWP specified by
.IR target_lwp .
The signal that is to be sent is specified by
.IR sig
and must be one from the list given in
.BR signal.h (3HEAD).
If
.I sig
is 0 (the null signal), error checking is performed but no signal is
actually sent. This can be used to check the validity of
.IR target_lwp .
.sp
.LP
The
.I target_lwp
must be an LWP within the same process as the calling
LWP.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. A non-zero value indicates
an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If any of the following conditions occur,
.B _lwp_kill()
fails and
returns the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I sig
argument is not a valid signal number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I target_lwp
argument cannot be found in the current process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5)
