'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH _lwp_cond_signal 2 "8 Dec 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_cond_signal, _lwp_cond_broadcast \- signal a condition variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_cond_signal\fR(\fBlwp_cond_t *\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_cond_broadcast\fR(\fBlwp_cond_t *\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_cond_signal()
function unblocks one LWP that is blocked on
the LWP condition variable pointed to by
.IR cvp .
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_cond_broadcast()
function unblocks all LWPs that are blocked
on the LWP condition variable pointed to by
.IR cvp .
.sp
.LP
If no LWPs are blocked on the LWP condition variable, then
.B _lwp_cond_signal()
and
.B _lwp_cond_broadcast()
have no effect.
.sp
.LP
Both functions should be called under the protection of the same LWP mutex
lock that is used with the LWP condition variable being signaled.
Otherwise, the condition variable may be signalled between the test of the
associated condition and blocking in
.BR _lwp_cond_wait() .
This can cause
an infinite wait.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. A non-zero value indicates
an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_cond_signal()
and
.B _lwp_cond_broadcast()
functions will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I cvp
argument points to an invalid LWP condition variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I cvp
argument points to an invalid address.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR _lwp_cond_wait (2),
.BR _lwp_mutex_lock (2)
