'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH _lwp_suspend 2 "13 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_suspend, _lwp_continue \- continue or suspend LWP execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_suspend\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_continue\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_suspend()
function immediately suspends the execution of the
LWP specified by
.IR target_lwp .
On successful return from
.BR _lwp_suspend() ,
.I target_lwp
is no longer executing. Once a thread
is suspended, subsequent calls to
.B _lwp_suspend()
have no affect.
.sp
.LP
The
.B _lwp_continue()
function resumes the execution of a suspended
LWP. Once a suspended LWP is continued, subsequent calls to
.B _lwp_continue()
have no effect.
.sp
.LP
A suspended LWP will not be awakened by a signal. The signal stays pending
until the execution of the LWP is resumed by
.BR _lwp_continue() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. A non-zero value indicates
an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the following condition occurs,
.B _lwp_suspend()
and
.B _lwp_continue()
fail and return the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The
.I target_lwpid
argument cannot be found in the current process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
