'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acct 2 "20 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
acct \- enable or disable process accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBacct\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B acct()
function enables or disables the system process accounting
routine. If the routine is enabled, an accounting record will be written in
an accounting file for each process that terminates. The termination of a
process can be caused by either an
.BR exit (2)
call or a
.BR signal (3C)).
The effective user
.B ID
of the process calling
.B acct()
must have the appropriate privileges.
.sp
.LP
The
.I path
argument points to the pathname of the accounting file,
whose file format is described on the
.BR acct.h "(3HEAD) manual page."
.sp
.LP
The accounting routine is enabled if
.I path
is non-zero and no errors
occur during the function. It is disabled if
.I path
is  \fB(char
*)NULL\fR and no errors occur during the function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B acct()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file named by
.I path
is not an ordinary file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An attempt is being made to enable accounting using the same file that is
currently being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\fBPATH_MAX\fR}, or the
length of a
.I path
argument exceeds {\fBNAME_MAX\fR} while
.B _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
One or more components of the accounting file pathname do not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_ACCT\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exit (2),
.BR acct.h (3HEAD),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR privileges (5)
