'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acl 2 "10 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
acl, facl \- get or set a file's Access Control List (ACL)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/acl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBacl\fR(\fBchar *\fIpathp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBint\fR \fInentries\fR, \fBvoid *\fIaclbufp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfacl\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBint\fR \fInentries\fR, \fBvoid *\fIaclbufp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B acl()
and \fBfacl()\fR functions get or set the  \fBACL\fR of a
file whose name is given by
.I pathp
or referenced by the open file
descriptor
.IR fildes .
The
.I nentries
argument specifies how many
\fBACL\fR entries fit into buffer
.IR aclbufp .
The
.B acl()
function is
used to manipulate
.B ACL
on file system objects.
.sp
.LP
The following types are supported for
.IR aclbufp :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B aclent_t
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used by the UFS file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ace_t
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used by the ZFS and NFSv4 file systems.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following values for
.I cmd
are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SETACL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
.I nentries
.B "aclent_t ACL"
entries, specified in buffer
\fIaclbufp\fR, are stored in the file's
.BR ACL .
All directories in the
path name must be searchable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETACL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Buffer \fIaclbufp\fR is filled with the file's  \fBaclent_t ACL\fR
entries. Read access to the file is not required, but all directories in the
path name must be searchable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETACLCNT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The number of entries in the file's
.B "aclent_t ACL"
is returned.
Read access to the file is not required, but all directories in the path
name must be searchable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ACE_SETACL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
.I nentries
.B ace_t
ACL entries, specified in buffer
.IR aclbufp ,
are stored in the file's ACL. All directories in the path name must be
searchable. Write ACL access is required to change the file's ACL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ACE_GETACL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Buffer \fIaclbufp\fR is filled with the file's
.B ace_t
ACL entries.
Read access to the file is required and all directories in the path name
must be searchable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ACE_GETACLCNT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The number of entries in the file's
.B ace_t
ACL is returned. Read
access to the file is required and all directories in the path name must be
searchable.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B acl()
and \fBfacl()\fR return \fB0\fR if
\fIcmd\fR is  \fBSETACL\fR or
.BR ACE_SETACL .
If
.I cmd
is
.BR GETACL ,
.BR GETACLCNT ,
\fBACE_GETACL\fR or
.BR ACE_GETACLCNT ,
the
number of
.B ACL
entries is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned
and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B acl()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The caller does not have access to a component of the pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I pathp
or \fIaclbufp\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is not
.BR GETACL ,
.BR SETACL ,
.BR ACE_GETACL ,
.BR GETACLCNT ,
or
.BR ACE_GETACLCNT ;
the
.IR cmd
argument is
.B SETACL
and
.I nentries
is less than 3; or the
\fIcmd\fR argument is  \fBSETACL\fR or \fBACE_SETACL\fR and the \fBACL\fR
specified in \fIaclbufp\fR is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A disk  I/O  error has occurred while storing or retrieving the
.B ACL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A component of the path does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B GETACL
and
.I nentries
is less than the
number of entries in the file's
.BR ACL ,
or the
.I cmd
argument is
\fBSETACL\fR and there is insufficient space in the file system to store the
.BR ACL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B SETACL
or
.B ACE_SETACL
and the file
specified by
.I pathp
resides on a file system that does not support
.BR ACLs ,
or the
.B acl()
function is not supported by this
implementation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A component of the path specified by
.I pathp
is not a directory, or the
\fIcmd\fR argument is  \fBSETACL\fR or \fBACE_SETACL\fR and an attempt is
made to set a default
.B ACL
on a file type other than a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.BR GETACL ,
but the ACL is composed of
\fBace_t\fR entries, and the ACL cannot be translated into \fBaclent_t\fR
form.
.sp
The
.I cmd
argument is
.BR ACE_SETACL ,
but the underlying filesystem
only supports ACLs composed of
.B aclent_t
entries and the ACL could not
be translated into
.B aclent_t
form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The effective user
.B ID
does not match the owner of the file and the
process does not have appropriate privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B SETACL
or
.B ACE_SETACL
and the file
specified by
.I pathp
resides on a file system that is mounted
read-only.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE  TYPEATTRIBUTE  VALUE
_
Interface  StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getfacl (1),
.BR setfacl (1),
.BR aclcheck (3SEC),
.BR aclsort (3SEC)
