'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH adjtime 2 "20 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
adjtime \- correct the time to allow synchronization of the system clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBadjtime\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fIdelta\fR, \fBstruct timeval *\fIolddelta\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B adjtime()
function adjusts the system's notion of the current
time as returned by \fBgettimeofday\fR(3C), advancing or retarding it by the
amount of time specified in the
.B "struct timeval"
pointed to by
.IR delta .
.sp
.LP
The adjustment is effected by speeding up (if that amount of time is
positive) or slowing down (if that amount of time is negative) the system's
clock by some small percentage, generally a fraction of one percent. The
time is always a monotonically increasing function. A time correction from
an earlier call to
.B adjtime()
may not be finished when
.BR adjtime()
is called again.
.sp
.LP
If
.I delta
is 0, then
.I olddelta
returns the status of the effects
of the previous
.B adjtime()
call with no effect on the time correction
as a result of this call. If
.I olddelta
is not a null pointer, then the
structure it points to will contain, upon successful return, the number of
seconds and/or microseconds still to be corrected from the earlier call. If
.I olddelta
is a null pointer, the corresponding information will not be
returned.
.sp
.LP
This call may be used in time servers that synchronize the clocks of
computers in a local area network. Such time servers would slow down the
clocks of some machines and speed up the clocks of others to bring them to
the average network time.
.sp
.LP
Only a processes with appropriate privileges can adjust the time of day.
.sp
.LP
The adjustment value will be silently rounded to the resolution of the
system clock.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B adjtime()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B adjtime()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I delta
or
.I olddelta
argument points outside the process's
allocated address space, or
.I olddelta
points to a region of the
process's allocated address space that is not writable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B tv_usec
member of
.I delta
is not within valid range
(\(mi1000000 to 1000000).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_TIME\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Additionally, the
.B adjtime()
function will fail for 32-bit interfaces
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The size of the
.B tv_sec
member of the
.B timeval
structure pointed
to by
.I olddelta
is too small to contain the correct number of
seconds.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR date (1),
.BR gettimeofday (3C),
.BR privileges (5)
