'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH alarm 2 "6 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
alarm \- schedule an alarm signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBunsigned int\fR \fBalarm\fR(\fBunsigned int\fR \fIseconds\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B alarm()
function causes the system to generate a
.BR SIGALRM
signal for the process after the number of real-time seconds specified by
seconds have elapsed (see
.BR signal.h (3HEAD)).
Processor scheduling
delays may prevent the process from handling the signal as soon as it is
generated.
.sp
.LP
If
.I seconds
is 0, a pending alarm request, if any, is cancelled. If
.I
seconds \c
is greater than \fBLONG_MAX\fR/\fIhz\fR,
.I seconds
is
.RB "rounded down to " LONG_MAX /\c
.IR hz .
The value of
.I hz
is normally
100.
.sp
.LP
Alarm requests are not stacked; only one
.B SIGALRM
generation can  be
scheduled in this manner; if the
.B SIGALRM
signal has not yet been
generated, the call will result in rescheduling the time at which the
.B SIGALRM
signal will be generated.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR fork (2)
function clears pending alarms in the child process. A
new process image created by one of the
.BR exec (2)
functions inherits the
time left to an alarm signal in the old process's image.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there is a previous alarm request with time  remaining,
.B alarm()
returns a  non-zero  value  that  is the number of seconds until the
previous request would  have generated  a
.B SIGALRM
signal.  Otherwise,
.B alarm()
returns 0.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B alarm()
function is always successful; no return value is
reserved to indicate an error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
