'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH auditon 2 "6 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
auditon \- manipulate auditing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBauditon\fR(\fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIdata\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B auditon()
function performs various audit subsystem control
operations. The
.I cmd
argument designates the particular audit control
command. The
.I data
argument is a pointer to command-specific data. The
.I length
argument is the length in bytes of the command-specific data.
.sp
.LP
The following commands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETCOND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the system audit on/off/disabled condition in the integer pointed to
by
.IR data .
The following values can be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_AUDITING
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Auditing has been turned on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_DISABLED
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Auditing system has not been enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_NOAUDIT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Auditing has been turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_NOSPACE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Auditing has blocked due to lack of space in audit partition.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETCOND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the system's audit on/off condition to the value in the integer pointed
to by
.IR data .
The Solaris Audit subsystem must be enabled by
.BR bsmconv (1M)
before auditing can be turned on. The following audit
states can be set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_AUDITING
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Turns on audit record generation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUC_NOAUDIT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Turns off audit record generation.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETCLASS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the event to class mapping for the designated audit event. The
.I data
argument points to the
.B au_evclass_map
structure containing
the event number. The preselection class mask is returned in the same
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETCLASS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the event class preselection mask for the designated audit event. The
.I data
argument points to the
.B au_evclass_map
structure containing
the event number and class mask.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETKMASK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the kernel preselection mask in the
.B au_mask
structure pointed
to by
.IR data .
This is the mask used to preselect non-attributable audit
events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETKMASK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the kernel preselection mask. The
.I data
argument points to the
.B au_mask
structure containing the class mask. This is the mask used to
preselect non-attributable audit events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETPINFO
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the audit ID, preselection mask, terminal ID and audit session ID of
the specified process in the
.B auditpinfo
structure pointed to by
.IR data .
.sp
Note that
.B A_GETPINFO
can fail if the termial ID contains a network
address longer than 32 bits. In this case, the
.B A_GETPINFO_ADDR
command
should be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETPINFO_ADDR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the audit ID, preselection mask, terminal ID and audit session ID
of the specified process in the
.B auditpinfo_addr
structure pointed to
by
.IR data .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETPMASK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask of the specified process. The
.I data
argument
points to the
.B auditpinfo
structure containing the process ID and the
preselection mask. The other fields of the structure are ignored and should
be set to
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETUMASK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask for all processes with the specified audit ID.
The
.I data
argument points to the
.B auditinfo
structure containing
the audit ID and the preselection mask. The other fields of the structure
are ignored and should be set to
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETSMASK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask for all processes with the specified audit
session ID. The
.I data
argument points to the
.B auditinfo
structure
containing the audit session
.B ID
and the preselection mask. The other
fields of the structure are ignored and should be set to
.IR NULL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETQCTRL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the kernel audit queue control parameters. These control the high
and low water marks of the number of audit records allowed in the audit
queue. The high water mark is the maximum allowed number of undelivered
audit records. The low water mark determines when threads blocked on the
queue are wakened. Another parameter controls the size of the data buffer
used to write data to the audit trail. There is also a parameter that
specifies a maximum delay before data is attempted to be written to the
.RB "audit trail. The audit queue parameters are returned in the" " au_qctrl"
structure pointed to by
.IR data .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETQCTRL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the kernel audit queue control parameters as described above in the
.B A_GETQCTRL
command. The
.I data
argument points to the
.B au_qctrl
structure containing the audit queue control parameters. The
default and maximum values 'A/B' for the audit queue control parameters
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B high water
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.B 100/10000
(audit records)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B low water
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.B 10/1024
(audit records)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B output buffer size
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.B 1024/1048576
(bytes)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B delay
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
.B 20/20000
(hundredths second)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETCWD
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the current working directory as kept by the audit subsystem. This
is a path anchored on the real root, rather than on the active root. The
.I data
argument points to a buffer into which the path is copied. The
.I length
argument is the length of the buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETCAR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the current active root as kept by the audit subsystem. This path
can be used to anchor an absolute path for a path token generated by an
application. The
.I data
argument points to a buffer into which the path
is copied. The
.I length
argument is the length of the buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETSTAT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the system audit statistics in the
.B audit_stat
structure
pointed to by
.IR data .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETSTAT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reset system audit statistics values. The kernel statistics value is reset
if the corresponding field in the statistics structure pointed to by the
.I data
argument is
.BR CLEAR_VAL .
Otherwise, the value is not
changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_GETPOLICY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the audit policy flags in the integer pointed to by
.IR data .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SETPOLICY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the audit policy flags to the values in the integer pointed to by
.IR data .
The following policy flags are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_CNT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not suspend processes when audit storage is full or inaccessible. The
default action is to suspend processes until storage becomes available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_AHLT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Halt the machine when a non-attributable audit record can not be delivered.
The default action is to count the number of events that could not be
recorded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_ARGV
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in the audit record the argument list for a member of the
.BR exec (2)
family of functions. The default action is not to include this
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_ARGE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include the environment variables for the
.BR execv (2)
function in the
audit record. The default action is not to include this information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_SEQ
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a
.I sequence
token to each audit record. The default action is not
to include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_TRAIL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a
.I trailer
token to each audit record. The default action is
not to include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_GROUP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include the supplementary groups list in audit records. The default action
is not to include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_PATH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include secondary paths in audit records. Examples of secondary paths are
dynamically loaded shared library modules and the command shell path for
executable scripts. The default action is to include only the primary path
from the system call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_WINDATA_DOWN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in an audit record any downgraded data moved between windows. This
policy is available only if the system is configured with Trusted
Extensions. By default, this information is not included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_WINDATA_UP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in an audit record any upgraded data moved between windows. This
policy is available only if the system is configured with Trusted
Extensions. By default, this information is not included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_PERZONE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable auditing for each local zone. If not set, audit records from all
zones are collected in a single log accessible in the global zone and
certain \fBauditconfig\fR(1M) operations are disallowed. This policy can be
set only from the global zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AUDIT_ZONENAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generate a zone ID token with each audit record.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B auditon()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
\(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B auditon()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B E2BIG
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I length
field for the command was too small to hold the returned
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The copy of data to/from the kernel failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
One of the arguments was illegal, Solaris Audit has not been installed, or
the operation is not valid from a local zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.sp
Neither the {\fBPRIV_PROC_AUDIT\fR} nor the {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR}
privilege is asserted in the effective set of the calling process and the
command is one of
.BR A_GETCAR ,
.BR A_GETCLASS ,
.BR A_GETCOND ,
.BR A_GETCWD ,
.BR A_GETPINFO ,
.BR A_GETPOLICY .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B auditon()
function can be invoked only by processes with
appropriate privileges.
.sp
.LP
The use of
.B auditon()
to change system audit state is permitted only
in the global zone. From any other zone
.B auditon()
returns \(mi1 with
.B errno
set to
.BR EPERM .
The following
.B auditon()
commands are
permitted only in the global zone:
.BR A_SETCOND ,
.BR A_SETCLASS ,
.BR A_SETKMASK ,
.BR A_SETQCTRL ,
.BR A_SETSTAT ,
.BR A_SETFSIZE ,
and
.BR A_SETPOLICY .
All other
.B auditon()
commands are valid from any
zone.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR auditconfig (1M),
.BR auditd (1M),
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR audit (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR audit.log (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described in this man page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled. See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more
information.
.sp
.LP
The auditon options that modify or display process-based information are
not affected by the "perzone" audit policy. Those that modify system audit
data such as the terminal ID and audit queue parameters are valid only in
the global zone unless the "perzone" policy is set. The "get" options for
system audit data reflect the local zone if "perzone" is set; otherwise they
reflects the settings of the global zone.
