'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dup 2 "28 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
dup \- duplicate an open file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdup\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dup()
function returns a new file descriptor having the following
in common with the original open file descriptor
.IR fildes :
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
same open file (or pipe)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
same file pointer (that is, both file descriptors share one file pointer)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
same access mode (read, write or read/write).
.RE
.sp
.LP
The new file descriptor is set to remain open across
.I exec
functions
(see
.BR fcntl (2)).
.sp
.LP
The file descriptor returned is the lowest one available.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdup(\fIfildes\fB)\fR function call is equivalent to:
.sp
.LP
\fBfcntl(\fIfildes\fB, F_DUPFD, 0)\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer representing the file
descriptor is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B dup()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.B dup()
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The process has too many open files (see
.BR getrlimit (2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is on a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR creat (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR dup2 (3C),
.BR lockf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
