'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2016, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH exit 2 "18 Sep 2019" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
exit, _Exit, _exit \- terminate process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBexit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fB_Exit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fB_exit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B exit()
function first calls all functions registered by
.BR atexit (3C),
in the reverse order of their registration, except that a
function is called after any previously registered functions that had
already been called at the time it was registered. Each function is called
as many times as it was registered. If, during the call to any such
function, a call to the
.BR longjmp (3C)
function is made that would
terminate the call to the registered function, the behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
If a function registered by a call to
.BR atexit (3C)
fails to return, the
remaining registered functions are not called and the rest of the
.B exit()
processing is not completed. If
.B exit()
is called more
than once, the effects are undefined.
.sp
.LP
The
.B exit()
function then flushes all open streams with unwritten
buffered data, closes all open streams, and removes all files created by
.BR tmpfile (3C).
.sp
.LP
The value of
.I status
may be
.BR 0 ,
.BR EXIT_SUCCESS ,
.BR EXIT_FAILURE ,
or any other value, though only the least significant
8 bits (that is,
.IB status " & 0377\c
) is available from
.BR wait() ,
.B wait3()
and
.BR waitpid() ;
the full value is available from
.B waitid()
and in the
.B siginfo_t
passed to a signal handler for
.BR SIGCHLD .
.sp
.LP
The
.B _Exit()
and
.B _exit()
functions are functionally equivalent.
They do not call functions registered with
.BR atexit() ,
do not call any
registered signal handlers, and do not flush open streams.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR _exit() ,
.BR _Exit() ,
and
.B exit()
functions terminate the
calling process with the following consequences:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
All of the file descriptors, directory streams, conversion descriptors and
message catalogue descriptors open in the calling process are closed.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the parent process of the calling process is executing a
.BR wait (3C),
.BR wait3 (3C),
.BR waitid (2),
or
.BR waitpid "(3C), and has neither set"
its
.B SA_NOCLDWAIT
flag nor set
.B SIGCHLD
to
.BR SIG_IGN ,
it is
notified of the calling process's termination and
.I status
is made available to it.  If the
parent is not waiting, the child's
.I status
will be made available to it when
the parent subsequently executes
.BR wait() ,
.BR wait3() ,
.BR waitid() ,
or
.BR waitpid() .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the parent process of the calling process is not executing a
.BR wait() ,
.BR wait3() ,
.BR waitid() ,
or
.BR waitpid() ,
and has not
set its
.B SA_NOCLDWAIT
flag, or set
.B SIGCHLD
to
.BR SIG_IGN ,
the
calling process is transformed into a
.IR "zombie process" .
A
.I "zombie process"
is an inactive process and it will be deleted at some later time
when its parent process executes
.BR wait() ,
.BR wait3() ,
.BR waitid() ,
or
.BR waitpid() .
A zombie process only occupies a slot in
the process table; it has no other space allocated either in user or kernel
space. The process table slot that it occupies is partially overlaid with
time accounting information (see
.BR <sys/proc.h> )
to be used by the
.BR times (2)
function.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Termination of a process does not directly terminate its children. The
sending of a
.B SIGHUP
signal as described below indirectly terminates
children in some circumstances.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A
.B SIGCHLD
will be sent to the parent process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The parent process
.B ID
of all of the calling process's existing child
processes and zombie processes is set to 1. That is, these processes are
inherited by the initialization process (see
.BR Intro (2)).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Each mapped memory object is unmapped.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Each attached shared-memory segment is detached and the value of
.B shm_nattch
(see
.BR shmget (2))
in the data structure associated with
its shared memory
.B ID
is decremented by 1.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For each semaphore for which the calling process has set a
.BR semadj
value (see
.BR semop (2)),
that value is added to the
.B semval
of the
specified semaphore.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the process is a controlling process, the
.B SIGHUP
signal will be
sent to each process in the foreground process group of the controlling
terminal belonging to the calling process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the process is a controlling process, the controlling terminal
associated with the session is disassociated from the session, allowing it
to be acquired by a new controlling process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the exit of the process causes a process group to become orphaned, and
if any member of the newly-orphaned process group is stopped, then a
.B SIGHUP
signal followed by a
.B SIGCONT
signal will be sent to each
process in the newly-orphaned process group.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the parent process has set its
.B SA_NOCLDWAIT
flag, or set
.B SIGCHLD
to
.BR SIG_IGN ,
the status will be discarded, and the
lifetime of the calling process will end immediately.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the process has process, text or data locks, an
.B UNLOCK
is
performed (see
.BR plock (3C)
and
.BR memcntl (2)).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
All open named semaphores in the process are closed as if by appropriate
calls to
.BR sem_close "(3C). All open message queues in the process are"
closed as if by appropriate calls to
.BR mq_close "(3C). Any outstanding"
asynchronous I/O operations may be cancelled.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An accounting record is written on the accounting file if the system's
accounting routine is enabled (see
.BR acct (2)).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An extended accounting record is written to the extended process accounting
file if the system's extended process accounting facility is enabled (see
.BR acctadm (1M)).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the current process is the last process within its task and if the
system's extended task accounting facility is enabled (see
.BR acctadm (1M)),
an extended accounting record is written to the extended
task accounting file.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions do not return.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Normally applications should use
.B exit()
rather than
.BR _exit() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSee below.
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B _exit()
and
.B _Exit()
functions are Async-Signal-Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acctadm (1M),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR acct (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR memcntl (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR times (2),
.BR waitid (2),
.BR atexit (3C),
.BR fclose (3C),
.BR mq_close (3C),
.BR plock (3C),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR tmpfile (3C),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR wait3 (3C),
.BR waitpid (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
