'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getaudit 2 "16 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
getaudit, setaudit, getaudit_addr, setaudit_addr \- get or set process
audit information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetaudit\fR(\fBstruct auditinfo *\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetaudit\fR(\fBstruct auditinfo *\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetaudit_addr\fR(\fBstruct auditinfo_addr *\fIinfo\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetaudit_addr\fR(\fBstruct auditinfo_addr *\fIinfo\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getaudit()
function gets the audit
.BR ID ,
the preselection
mask, the terminal
.B ID
and the audit session
.B ID
for the current
process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getaudit()
function can fail and return an
.B E2BIG
errno if
the address field in the terminal
.B ID
is larger than 32 bits. In this
case,
.B getaudit_addr()
should be used.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setaudit()
function sets the audit
.BR ID ,
the preselection
mask, the terminal
.B ID
and the audit session
.B ID
for the current
process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getaudit_addr()
function returns a variable length
.B auditinfo_addr
structure that contains the audit
.BR ID ,
the
preselection mask, the terminal
.BR ID ,
and the audit session
.B ID
for
the current process. The terminal
.B ID
contains a size field that
indicates the size of the network address.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setaudit_addr()
function sets the audit
.BR ID ,
the
preselection mask, the terminal
.BR ID ,
and  the audit session
.BR ID
for the current process. The values are taken from the variable length
struture
.BR auditinfo_addr .
The terminal
.B ID
contains a size field
that indicates the size of the network address.
.sp
.LP
The
.B auditinfo
structure is used to pass the process audit information
and contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
au_id_t     ai_auid;        /* audit user ID */
au_mask_t   ai_mask;        /* preselection mask */
au_tid_t    ai_termid;      /* terminal ID */
au_asid_t   ai_asid;        /* audit session ID */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B auditinfo_addr
structure is used to pass the process audit
information and contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
au_id_t        ai_auid;      /* audit user ID */
au_mask_t      ai_mask;      /* preselection mask */
au_tid_addr_t  ai_termid;    /* terminal ID */
au_asid_t      ai_asid;      /* audit session ID */
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B getaudit()
and
.B setaudit()
return
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getaudit()
and
.B setaudit()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I info
parameter points outside the process's allocated address
space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The calling process must have the {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR} privilege asserted
in its effective set.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR audit (2),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described in this man page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more
information.
