'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getppriv 2 "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
getppriv, setppriv \- get or set a privilege set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <priv.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetppriv\fR(\fBpriv_ptype_t\fR \fIwhich\fR, \fBpriv_set_t *\fIset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetppriv\fR(\fBpriv_op_t\fR \fIop\fR, \fBpriv_ptype_t\fR \fIwhich\fR, \fBpriv_set_t *\fIset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getppriv()
function returns the process privilege set specified
by
.I which
in the set pointed to by
.IR set .
The memory for
.IR set
is allocated with
.B priv_allocset()
and freed with
.BR priv_freeset() .
Both functions are documented on the
.BR priv_addset "(3C) manual page."
.sp
.LP
The
.B setppriv()
function sets or changes the process privilege set.
The
.I op
argument specifies the operation and can be one of
.BR PRIV_OFF ,
.B PRIV_ON
or
.BR PRIV_SET .
The
.I which
argument
specifies the name of the privilege set. The
.I set
argument specifies
the set.
.sp
.LP
If
.I op
is
.BR PRIV_OFF ,
the privileges in
.I set
are removed from
the process privilege set specified by
.IR which .
There are no
restrictions on removing privileges from process privileges sets, but the
following apply:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Privileges removed from
.B PRIV_PERMITTED
are silently removed from
.BR PRIV_EFFECTIVE .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If privileges are removed from
.BR PRIV_LIMIT ,
they are not removed from
the other sets until one of
.BR exec (2)
functions has successfully
completed.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If
.I op
is
.BR PRIV_ON ,
the privileges in
.I set
are added to the
process privilege set specified by
.IR which .
The following operations
are permitted:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Privileges in
.B PRIV_PERMITTED
can be added to
.BR PRIV_EFFECTIVE
without restriction.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Privileges in
.B PRIV_PERMITTED
can be added to
.BR PRIV_INHERITABLE
without restriction.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
All operations that attempt to add privileges that are already present are
permitted.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If
.I op
is
.BR PRIV_SET ,
the privileges in
.I set
replace
completely the process privilege set specified by
.IR which .
.B PRIV_SET
is implemented in terms of
.B PRIV_OFF
and
.BR PRIV_ON .
The same restrictions apply.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1  is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getppriv()
and
.B setppriv()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I op
or
.I which
is out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I set
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B setppriv()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The application attempted to add privileges to
.B PRIV_LIMIT
or
.BR PRIV_PERMITTED ,
or the application attempted to add privileges to
.B PRIV_INHERITABLE
or
.B PRIV_EFFECTIVE
which were not in
.BR PRIV_PERMITTED .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR priv_addset (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
