'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getuid 2 "28 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
getuid, geteuid, getgid, getegid \- get real user, effective user, real
group, and effective group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBuid_t\fR \fBgetuid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuid_t\fR \fBgeteuid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBgid_t\fR \fBgetgid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBgid_t\fR \fBgetegid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getuid()
function returns the real user
.B ID
of the calling
process. The real user
.B ID
identifies the person who is logged in.
.sp
.LP
The
.B geteuid()
function returns the effective user
.B ID
of the
calling process. The effective user
.B ID
gives the process various
permissions during execution of "set-user-ID" mode processes which use
.B getuid()
to determine the real user
.B ID
of the process that
invoked them.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getgid()
function returns the real group
.B ID
of the calling
process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getegid()
function returns the effective group
.B ID
of the
calling process.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
