'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ioctl 2 "15 Feb 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
#include <stropts.h>

\fBint\fR \fBioctl\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrequest\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIarg\fR */ .\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ioctl()
function performs a variety of control functions on
devices and streams. For non-streams files, the functions performed by this
call are  device-specific control functions.  The
.I request
argument and
an optional third argument with varying type are passed to the file
designated by
.I fildes
and are interpreted by the device driver.
.sp
.LP
For streams files, specific functions are performed by the \fBioctl()\fR
function as described in
.BR streamio (7I).
.sp
.LP
The
.I fildes
argument is an open file descriptor that refers to a
device. The
.I request
argument selects the control function to be
performed and depends on the device being addressed.  The
.I arg
argument
represents a third argument that has additional information that is needed
by this specific device to perform the requested function. The data type of
.I arg
depends upon the particular control request, but it is either an
.B int
or a pointer to a device-specific data structure.
.sp
.LP
In addition to device-specific and streams functions, generic functions are
provided by more than one device driver (for example, the general terminal
interface.) See
.BR termio (7I)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends upon the device
control function, but must be a non-negative integer.  Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B ioctl()
function will fail for any type of file if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.B ioctl()
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The stream or multiplexer referenced by
.I fildes
is linked (directly or
indirectly) downstream from a multiplexer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ioctl()
function will also fail if the device driver detects an
error. In this case, the error is passed through
.B ioctl()
without
change to the caller. A particular driver might not have all of the
following error cases. Under the following conditions, requests to device
drivers may fail and set
.B errno
to indicate the error
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I request
argument requires a data transfer to or from a buffer
pointed to by
.IR arg ,
but
.I arg
points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I request
or
.I arg
argument is not valid for this device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Some physical I/O error has occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is on a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTTY
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not associated with a streams device that
accepts control functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I request
and
.I arg
arguments are valid for this device driver,
but the service requested can not be performed on this particular
subdevice.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENODEV
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument refers to a valid streams device, but the
corresponding device driver does not support the
.B ioctl()
function.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Streams errors are described in
.BR streamio (7I).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR termio (7I)
