'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH llseek 2 "1 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
llseek \- move extended read/write file pointer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBoffset_t\fR \fBllseek\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBoffset_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwhence\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B llseek()
function sets the 64-bit extended file pointer
associated with the open file descriptor specified by
.I fildes
as
follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I whence
is
.BR SEEK_SET ,
the pointer is set to
.I offset
bytes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I whence
is
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
the pointer is set to its current
location plus
.IR offset .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I whence
is
.BR SEEK_END ,
the pointer is set to the size of the
file plus
.IR offset .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I whence
is
.BR SEEK_HOLE ,
the offset of the start of the next
hole greater than or equal to the supplied offset is returned. The
definition of a hole immediately follows this list.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I whence
is
.BR SEEK_DATA ,
the file pointer is set to the start of
the next non-hole file region greater than or equal to the supplied
offset.
.RE
.sp
.LP
A "hole" is defined as a contiguous range of bytes in a file, all having
the value of zero, but not all zeros in a file are guaranteed to be
represented as holes returned with
.BR SEEK_HOLE .
Filesystems are allowed
to expose ranges of zeros with
.BR SEEK_HOLE ,
but not required to.
Applications can use
.B SEEK_HOLE
to optimise their behavior for ranges
of zeros, but must not depend on it to find all such ranges in a file. The
existence of a hole at the end of every data region allows for easy
programming and implies that a virtual hole exists at the end of the file.
.sp
.LP
For filesystems that do not supply information about holes, the file will
be represented as one entire data region.
.sp
.LP
Although each file has a 64-bit file pointer associated with it, some
existing file system types (such as
.BR tmpfs )
do not support the full
range of 64-bit offsets.  In particular, on such file systems, non-device
files remain limited to offsets of less than two gigabytes.  Device drivers
may support offsets of up to 1024 gigabytes for device special files.
.sp
.LP
Some devices are incapable of seeking. The value of the file pointer
associated with such a device is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B llseek()
returns the resulting pointer
location as measured in bytes from the beginning of the file. Remote file
descriptors are the only ones that allow negative file pointers. Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned, the file pointer remains unchanged, and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B llseek()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not an open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I whence
argument is not
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
or
.BR SEEK_END ;
the
.I offset
argument is not a valid offset for this
file system type; or the
.I fildes
argument is not a remote file
descriptor and the resulting file pointer would be negative.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
For
.BR SEEK_DATA ,
there are no more data regions past the supplied
offset. For
.BR SEEK_HOLE ,
there are no more holes past the supplied
offset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is associated with a pipe or FIFO.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR creat (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR open (2)
