'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mprotect 2 "12 Jan 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
mprotect \- set protection of memory mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmprotect\fR(\fBvoid *\fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fIprot\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mprotect()
function changes the access protections on the
mappings specified by the range [\fIaddr, addr + len\fR\|), rounding
.I len
up to the next multiple of the page size as returned by
.BR sysconf (3C),
to be that specified by
.IR prot .
Legitimate values for
.I prot
are the same as those permitted for
.BR mmap (2)
and are defined
in
.RB < sys/mman.h >
as:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PROT_READ
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B "/* page can be read */
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PROT_WRITE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B "/* page can be written */
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PROT_EXEC
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B "/* page can be executed */
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PROT_NONE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B "/* page can not be accessed */
.RE

.sp
.LP
When
.B mprotect()
fails for reasons other than
.BR EINVAL ,
the
protections on some of the pages in the range
.RI [ "addr, addr + len" )
may
have been changed. If the error occurs on some page at
.IR addr2 ,
then the
protections of all whole pages in the range
.RI [ "addr, addr2" ]
will have
been modified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B mprotect()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mprotect()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I prot
argument specifies a protection that violates the access
permission the process has to the underlying memory object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I len
argument has a value equal to 0, or
.I addr
is not a
multiple of the page size as returned by
.BR sysconf (3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Addresses in the range
.RI [ "addr, addr + len" )
are invalid for the address
space of a process, or specify one or more pages which are not mapped.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B mprotect()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address range
.RI [ "addr, addr + len" )
includes one or more pages that
have been locked in memory and that were mapped
.B MAP_PRIVATE;
.I prot
includes
.B PROT_WRITE;
and the system has insufficient resources to
reserve memory for the private pages that may be created. These private
pages may be created by store operations in the now-writable address
range.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fRATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mmap (2),
.BR plock (3C),
.BR mlock (3C),
.BR mlockall (3C),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
