'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH msgctl 2 "22 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
msgctl \- message control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/msg.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmsgctl\fR(\fBint\fR \fImsqid\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBstruct msqid_ds *\fIbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgctl()
function provides a variety of message control
operations as specified by
.IR cmd .
The following
.IR cmd "s are"
available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_STAT
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Place the current value of each member of the data structure associated
with
.I msqid
into the structure pointed to by
.IR buf .
The contents of
this structure are defined in
.BR Intro (2).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_SET
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set the value of the following members of the data structure associated
with
.I msqid
to the corresponding value found in the structure pointed
to by \fIbuf\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
msg_perm.uid
msg_perm.gid
msg_perm.mode /* access permission bits only */
msg_qbytes
.fi
.in -2

This command can be executed only by a process that has either the
{\fBPRIV_IPC_OWNER\fR} privilege or an effective user \fBID\fR equal to the
value of
.B msg_perm.cuid
or
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data structure
associated with
.IR msqid .
Only a process with the
{\fBPRIV_SYS_IPC_CONFIG\fR} privilege can raise the value of
.BR msg_qbytes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_RMID
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Remove the message queue identifier specified by
.I msqid
from the
system and destroy the message queue and data structure associated with it.
This
.I cmd
can only be executed by a process that has an effective user
\fBID\fR either with appropriate privileges asserted in the effective set or
equal to the value of
.B msg_perm.cuid
or 
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data
structure associated with
.IR msqid .
The \fIbuf\fR argument is ignored.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B msgctl()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgctl()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B IPC_STAT
and operation permission is denied
to the calling process (see \fBIntro\fR(2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The \fIbuf\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I msqid
argument is not a valid message queue identifier; or the
\fIcmd\fR argument is not a valid command or is \fBIPC_SET\fR and
\fBmsg_perm.uid\fR or \fBmsg_perm.gid\fR is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B IPC_STAT
and
.I uid
or
.I gid
is too
large to be stored in the structure pointed to by \fIbuf\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B IPC_RMID
or
.BR IPC_SET ,
the
{\fBPRIV_SYS_IPC_OWNER\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process, and is not equal to the value of
.B msg_perm.cuid
or
\fBmsg_perm.uid\fR in the data structure associated with \fImsqid\fR.
.sp
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B IPC_SET,
an attempt is being made to
increase to the value of
.BR msg_qbytes ,
and the
{\fBPRIV_SYS_IPC_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
