'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1994, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH msgget 2 "14 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/msg.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmsgget\fR(\fBkey_t\fR \fIkey\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsgflg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgget()
argument returns the message queue identifier associated
with
.IR key .
.sp
.LP
A message queue identifier and associated message queue and data structure
(see
.BR Intro (2))
are created for
.I key
if one of the following are
true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.I key
is
.BR IPC_PRIVATE .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.I key
does not already have a message queue identifier associated with
it, and (\fImsgflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) is true.
.RE
.sp
.LP
On creation, the data structure associated with the new message queue
identifier is initialized as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.BR msg_perm.cuid ,
.BR msg_perm.uid ,
.BR msg_perm.cgid ,
and
.B msg_perm.gid
are set to the effective user
.B ID
and effective
group
.B ID,
respectively, of the calling process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The low-order 9 bits of
.B msg_perm.mode
are set to the low-order 9 bits
of
.IR msgflg .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.BR msg_qnum ,
.BR msg_lspid ,
.BR msg_lrpid ,
.BR msg_stime ,
and
.B msg_rtime
are set to 0.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B msg_ctime
is set to the current time.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B msg_qbytes
is set to the system limit. See NOTES.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer representing a message
queue identifier is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B msgget()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A message queue identifier exists for
.IR key ,
but operation permission
(see
.BR Intro (2))
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I msgflg
would not be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A message queue identifier exists for
.I key
but
(\fImsgflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) and (\fImsgflg\fB&IPC_EXCL\fR) are both
true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A message queue identifier does not exist for
.I key
and
(\fImsgflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) is false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A message queue identifier is to be created but the system-imposed limit on
the maximum number of allowed message queue identifiers system wide would be
exceeded. See NOTES.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rctladm (1M),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR setrctl (2),
.BR ftok (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The system-defined limit used to initialize
.B msg_qbytes
is the minimum
enforced value of the calling process's
.B process.max-msg-qbytes
resource control.
.sp
.LP
The system-imposed limit on the number of message queue identifiers is
.RB "maintained on a per-project basis using the" " project.max-msg-ids"
resource control. The
.B zone.max-msg-ids
resource control restricts the
total amount of message queue identifiers that can be allocated by a zone.
.sp
.LP
See
.BR rctladm "(1M) and"
.BR setrctl (2)
for information about using
resource controls.
