'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH munmap 2 "5 Jan 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
munmap \- unmap pages of memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmunmap\fR(\fBvoid *\fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B munmap()
function removes the mappings for pages in the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fR), rounding the \fIlen\fR argument up to the next
multiple of the page size as returned by \fBsysconf\fR(3C). If
.I addr
is
not the address of a mapping established by a prior call to
.BR mmap (2),
the behavior is undefined. After a successful call to
.B munmap()
and
before any subsequent mapping of the unmapped pages, further references to
these pages will result in the delivery of a
.B SIGBUS
or
.BR SIGSEGV
signal to the process.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR mmap (2)
function often performs an implicit
.BR munmap() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B munmap()
returns
.BR 0 ;
otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B munmap()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I addr
argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
.BR sysconf (3C);
addresses in the range [\fIaddr, addr + len\fR) are
outside the valid range for the address space of a process; or the
.I len
argument has a value less than or equal to
.BR 0 .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mmap (2),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
