'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) David L. Mills 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ntp_gettime 2 "21 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
ntp_gettime \- get local clock values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/timex.h>

\fBint\fR \fBntp_gettime\fR(\fBstruct ntptimeval *\fItptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ntp_gettime()
function reads the local clock value and
dispersion, returning the information in
.IR tptr .
.sp
.LP
The
.B ntptimeval
structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct ntptimeval {
    struct timeval   time;       /* current time (ro) */
    int32_t          maxerror;   /* maximum error (us) (ro) */
    int32_t          esterror;   /* estimated error (us) (ro) */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B ntp_gettime()
returns the current clock
.RB "state (see <" sys/timex.h ">). Otherwise, it returns " \(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B ntp_gettime()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I tptr
argument points to an invalid address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ntp_gettime()
function will fail for 32-bit interfaces if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The size of the
.B time.tv_sec
member of the
.B ntptimeval
structure
pointed to by
.I tptr
is too small to contain the correct number of
seconds.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ntp_adjtime (2)
.sp
.LP
See the
.B ntpd
man page, delivered in the
.B SUNWntpu
package (not a
SunOS man page).
