'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pause 2 "28 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
pause \- suspend process until signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpause\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pause()
function suspends the calling process until it receives a
signal. The signal must be one that is not currently set to be ignored by
the calling process.
.sp
.LP
If the signal causes termination of the calling process,
.B pause()
does
not return.
.sp
.LP
If the signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned from
the signal-catching function (see
.BR signal (3C)),
the calling process
resumes execution from the point of suspension.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Since
.B pause()
suspends thread  execution indefinitely unless
interrupted by a signal, there is no successful completion return value.  If
interrupted, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pause()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned from the
signal-catching function.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR alarm (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
