'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH priocntlset 2 "1 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
priocntlset \- generalized process scheduler control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/procset.h>
#include <sys/priocntl.h>
#include <sys/rtpriocntl.h>
#include <sys/tspriocntl.h>
#include <sys/iapriocntl.h>
#include <sys/fsspriocntl.h>
#include <sys/fxpriocntl.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBpriocntlset\fR(\fBprocset_t *\fIpsp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIarg\fR */ .\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B priocntlset()
function changes the scheduling properties of
running processes.
.B priocntlset()
has the same functions as the
.B priocntl()
function, but a more general way of specifying the set of
processes whose scheduling properties are to be changed.
.sp
.LP
.I cmd
specifies the function to be performed.
.I arg
is a pointer to
a structure whose type depends on
.IR cmd .
See
.BR priocntl (2)
for the
valid values of
.I cmd
and the corresponding
.I arg
structures.
.sp
.LP
.I psp
is a pointer to a
.B procset
structure, which
.B priocntlset()
uses to specify the set of processes whose scheduling
properties are to be changed. The
.B procset
structure contains the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
idop_t    p_op;        /* operator connecting left/right sets */
idtype_t  p_lidtype;   /* left set ID type */
id_t      p_lid;       /* left set ID */
idtype_t  p_ridtype;   /* right set ID type */
id_t      p_rid;       /* right set ID */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B p_lidtype
and
.B p_lid
members specify the
.B ID
type and
\fBID\fR of one ("left") set of processes; the \fBp_ridtype\fR and
.B p_rid
members specify the
.B ID
type and
.B ID
of a second
("right") set of processes. \fBID\fR types and \fBID\fRs are specified just
as for the
.B priocntl()
function. The
.B p_op
member specifies the
operation to be performed on the two sets of processes to get the set of
processes the function is to apply to. The valid values for
.B p_op
and
the processes they specify are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POP_DIFF
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set difference: processes in left set and not in right set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POP_AND
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set intersection: processes in both left and right sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POP_OR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set union: processes in either left or right sets or both.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POP_XOR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set exclusive-or: processes in left or right set but not in both.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following macro, which is defined in
.RB < procset.h >,
offers a
convenient way to initialize a
.B procset
structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define  setprocset(psp, op, ltype, lid, rtype, rid) \e
(psp)->p_op       = (op), \e
(psp)->p_lidtype  = (ltype), \e
(psp)->p_lid      = (lid), \e
(psp)->p_ridtype  = (rtype), \e
(psp)->p_rid      = (rid),
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Unless otherwise noted above,
.B priocntlset()
returns
.B 0
on
success. Otherwise, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B priocntlset()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An attempt to change the class of a process failed because of insufficient
resources other than memory (for example, class-specific kernel data
structures).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
One of the arguments points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The argument
.I cmd
was invalid, an invalid or unconfigured class was
specified, or one of the parameters specified was invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An attempt to change the class of a process failed because of insufficient
memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.RB { PRIV_PROC_PRIOCNTL }
privilege is not asserted in the effective
set of the calling LWP.
.sp
The calling LWP does not have sufficient privileges to affect the target
LWP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ERANGE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The requested time quantum is out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
None of the specified processes exist.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR priocntl (1),
.BR priocntl (2)
