'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH readlink 2 "1 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
readlink \- read the contents of a symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBreadlink\fR(\fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIpath\fR,
     \fBchar *restrict\fR \fIbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIbufsiz\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B readlink()
function places the contents of the symbolic link
referred to by
.I path
in the buffer
.I buf
which has size
.IR bufsiz .
If the number of bytes in the symbolic link is less than
.IR bufsiz ,
the contents of the remainder of
.I buf
are left unchanged.
If the
.I buf
argument is not large enough to contain the link content,
the first \fIbufsize\fR bytes are placed in \fIbuf\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B readlink()
returns the count of bytes
placed in the buffer.  Otherwise, it returns  \fB\(mi1\fR, leaves the buffer
unchanged, and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B readlink()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.I path
or
.I buf
points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument names a file that is not a symbolic link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of
.I path
does not name an existing file or
.I path
is
an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.I path
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of
.I path
exceeds {\fBPATH_MAX\fR}, or a pathname component
is longer than {\fBNAME_MAX\fR} while \fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file system does not support symbolic links.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B readlink()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Read permission is denied for the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
More than {\fBSYMLOOP_MAX\fR} symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
As a result of encountering a symbolic link in resolution of the path
argument, the length of the substituted pathname string exceeded
{\fBPATH_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Portable applications should not assume that the returned contents of the
symbolic link are null-terminated.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stat (2),
.BR symlink (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
