'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rmdir 2 "18 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
rmdir \- remove a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrmdir\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmdir()
function removes the directory named by the path name
pointed to by
.IR path .
The directory must not have any entries other than
"\fB\&.\fR" and "\fB\&..\fR".
.sp
.LP
If the directory's link count becomes zero and no process has the directory
open, the space occupied by the directory is freed and the directory is no
longer accessible. If one or more processes have the directory open when the
last link is removed, the "\fB\&.\fR" and "\fB\&..\fR" entries, if present,
are removed before
.B rmdir()
returns and no new entries may be created
in the directory, but the directory is not removed until all references to
the directory have been closed.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion
.B rmdir()
marks for update the
.B st_ctime
and
.B st_mtime
fields of the parent directory.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned,
.B errno
is set to indicate the error, and the named directory
is not changed.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B rmdir()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix and
{\fBPRIV_FILE_DAC_SEARCH\fR} is not asserted in the effective set of the
calling process
.sp
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the directory to be
removed and {\fBPRIV_FILE_DAC_WRITE\fR} is not asserted.
.sp
The parent directory has the
.B S_ISVTX
variable set, is not owned by
the user, and {\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR} is not asserted.
.sp
The directory is not owned by the user and is not writable by the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The directory to be removed is the mount point for a mounted file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The directory contains entries other than those for "\fB\&.\fR" and
"\fB\&..\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The directory to be removed is the current directory, or the final
component of \fIpath\fR is "\fB\&.\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EILSEQ
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The path argument includes non-UTF8 characters and the file system accepts
only file names where all characters are part of the UTF-8 character
codeset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while accessing the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds
.BR PATH_MAX ,
or the length
of a
.I path
component exceeds
.I NAME_MAX
while
.BR _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The named directory does not exist or is the null pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to a remote machine, and the connection to
that machine is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The directory entry to be removed is part of a read-only file system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
