'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH semctl 2 "1 Feb 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
semctl \- semaphore control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/sem.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsemctl\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsemid\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsemnum\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR.\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B semctl()
function provides a variety of semaphore control
operations as specified by
.IR cmd .
The fourth argument is optional,
depending upon the operation  requested.  If required, it is of type
.BR "union semun" ,
which must be explicitly declared by the application
program.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
union semun {
        int             val;
        struct semid_ds *buf;
        ushort_t        *array;
} arg ;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The permission required for a semaphore operation is given as
{\fItoken\fR}, where \fItoken\fR is the type of permission needed.  The
types of permission are interpreted as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
00400    READ by user
00200    ALTER by user
00040    READ by group
00020    ALTER by group
00004    READ by others
00002    ALTER by others
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See the
.B "Semaphore Operation Permissions"
subsection of the
.B DEFINITIONS
section of
.BR Intro (2)
for more information. The
following semaphore operations as specified by
.I cmd
are executed with
respect to the semaphore specified by
.I semid
and
.IR semnum .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Return the value of semval (see
.BR Intro (2)).
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SETVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Set the value of  \fBsemval\fR to \fIarg.\fIval\fR. {ALTER} When this
command is successfully executed, the
.B semadj
value corresponding to
the specified semaphore in all processes is cleared.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETPID
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Return the value of
.BR "(int) sempid" .
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETNCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Return the value of
.BR semncnt .
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETZCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Return the value of
.BR semzcnt .
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following operations return and set, respectively, every \fBsemval\fR
in the set of semaphores.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETALL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Place \fBsemval\fRs into array pointed to by \fIarg.\fBarray\fR.
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SETALL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Set
.BR semval "s according to the array pointed to by"
\fIarg.\fBarray\fR. {ALTER}. When this cmd is successfully executed, the
.B semadj
values corresponding to each specified semaphore in all
processes are cleared.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following operations are also available.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_STAT
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Place the current value of each member of the data structure associated
with
.I semid
into the structure pointed to by \fIarg.\fBbuf\fR. The
contents of this structure are defined in
.BR Intro (2).
{READ}
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_SET
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Set the value of the following members of the data structure associated
with
.I semid
to the corresponding value found in the structure pointed
to by \fIarg\fR.\fBbuf\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sem_perm.uid
sem_perm.gid
sem_perm.mode	/* access permission bits only */
.fi
.in -2

This command can be executed only by a process that has either the
{\fBPRIV_IPC_OWNER\fR} privilege or an effective user \fBID\fR equal to the
value of
.B msg_perm.cuid
or
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data structure
associated with
.IR msqid .
Only a process with the
{\fBPRIV_SYS_IPC_CONFIG\fR} privilege can raise the value of
.BR msg_qbytes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPC_RMID
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Remove the semaphore identifier specified by
.I semid
from the system
and destroy the set of semaphores and data structure associated with it.
This command can be executed only by a process that has the
{\fBPRIV_IPC_OWNER\fR} privilege or an effective user \fBID\fR equal to the
value of
.B sem_perm.cuid
or
.B sem_perm.uid
in the data structure
associated with
.IR semid .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on
.I cmd
as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
the value of
.BR semval
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETPID
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
the value of
.BR "(int) sempid"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETNCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
the value of
.BR semncnt
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETZCNT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
the value of
.BR semzcnt
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other successful completions return
.BR 0 ;
otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B semctl()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Operation permission is denied to the calling process (see
.BR Intro (2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The source or target is not a valid address in the user process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I semid
argument is not a valid semaphore identifier; the
.I semnum
argument is less than 0 or greater than
.B sem_nsems
\(mi1;
or the
.I cmd
argument is not a valid command or is
.B IPC_SET
and
.B sem_perm.uid
or
.B sem_perm.gid
is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is equal to
.B IPC_RMID
or
.BR IPC_SET ,
the
effective user ID of the calling process is not equal to the value of
.B sem_perm.cuid
or
.B sem_perm.uid
in the data structure associated
with
.IR semid ,
and {\fBPRIV_IPC_OWNER\fR} is not asserted in the
effective set of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B IPC_STAT
and
.I uid
or
.I gid
is too
large to be stored in the structure pointed to by
.IR arg.buf .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ERANGE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is
.B SETVAL
or
.B SETALL
and the value to
which
.B semval
is to be set is greater than the system imposed
maximum.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
