'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH semget 2 "14 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
semget \- get set of semaphores
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/sem.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsemget\fR(\fBkey_t\fR \fIkey\fR, \fBint\fR \fInsems\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsemflg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B semget()
function returns the semaphore identifier associated
with
.IR key .
.sp
.LP
A semaphore identifier and associated data structure and set containing
\fInsems\fR semaphores (see
.BR Intro (2))
are created for
.I key
if one
of the following is true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIkey\fR is equal to \fBIPC_PRIVATE\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIkey\fR does not already have a semaphore identifier associated with it,
and (\fIsemflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) is true.
.RE
.sp
.LP
On creation, the data structure associated with the new semaphore
identifier is initialized as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.BR sem_perm.cuid ,
.BR sem_perm.uid ,
.BR sem_perm.cgid ,
and
\fBsem_perm.gid\fR are set equal to the effective user \fBID\fR and
effective group
.B ID,
respectively, of the calling process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The access permission bits of
.B sem_perm.mode
are set equal to the
access permission bits of
.IR semflg .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBsem_nsems\fR is set equal to the value of \fInsems\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBsem_otime\fR is set equal to 0 and \fBsem_ctime\fR is set equal to the
current time.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer representing a semaphore
identifier is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B semget()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A semaphore identifier exists for
.IR key ,
but operation permission (see
.BR Intro (2))
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of \fIsemflg\fR would
not be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A semaphore identifier exists for
.I key
but both
(\fIsemflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) and (\fIsemflg\fB&IPC_EXCL\fR) are both
true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I nsems
argument is either less than or equal to 0 or greater than
the system-imposed limit. See NOTES.
.sp
A semaphore identifier exists for
.IR key ,
but the number of semaphores
in the set associated with it is less than
.I nsems
and
.I nsems
is
not equal to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A semaphore identifier does not exist for
.I key
and
(\fIsemflg\fB&IPC_CREAT\fR) is false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A semaphore identifier is to be created but the system-imposed limit on the
maximum number of allowed semaphores or semaphore identifiers system-wide
would be exceeded. See NOTES.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR rctladm (1M),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR setrctl (2),
.BR ftok (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The system-imposed limit on the value of the
.I nsems
argument is the
.RB "maintained on a per-process basis using the" " process.max-sem-nsems"
resource control.
.sp
.LP
The system-imposed limit on the number of semaphore identifiers is
.RB "maintained on a per-project basis using the" " project.max-sem-ids"
resource control. The
.B zone.max-sem-ids
resource control limis the
total number of semaphore identifiers that can be allocated by a zone.
.sp
.LP
See
.BR rctladm "(1M) and"
.BR setrctl (2)
for information about using
resource controls.
