'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setregid 2 "22 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
setregid \- set real and effective group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetregid\fR(\fBgid_t\fR \fIrgid\fR, \fBgid_t\fR \fIegid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B setregid()
function is used to set the real and effective group
IDs of the calling process.  If
.I rgid
is \(mi1, the real group ID is
not changed; if
.I egid
is \(mi1, the effective group ID is not changed.
The real and effective group IDs may be set to different values in the same
call.
.sp
.LP
If the {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is asserted in the effective set
of the calling process, the real group ID and the effective group ID can be
set to any legal value.
.sp
.LP
If the {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective
set of the calling process, either the real group ID can be set to the saved
set-group-ID from
.BR execve (2),
or the effective group ID can either be
set to the saved set-group-ID or the real group ID.
.sp
.LP
In either case, if the real group ID is being changed (that is, if
\fIrgid\fR is not \(mi1), or the effective group ID is being changed to a
value not equal to the real group ID, the saved set-group-ID is set equal to
the new effective group ID.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned,
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error, and neither of the group IDs will
be changed.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B setregid()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I rgid
or
.I egid
is less than 0 or greater than
\fBUID_MAX\fR (defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR>).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling processes and a change was specified other than changing the
real group
.B ID
to the saved set-group-\fBID\fR or changing the
effective group
.B ID
to the real group
.B ID
or the saved group ID.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If a set-group-\fBID\fR process sets its effective group
.B ID
to its
real group
.BR ID ,
it can still set its effective group
.B ID
back to
the saved set-group-\fBID\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR execve (2),
.BR getgid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
