'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH settaskid 2 "10 Apr 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
settaskid, gettaskid, getprojid \- set or get task or project IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/task.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBtaskid_t\fR \fBsettaskid\fR(\fBprojid_t\fR \fIproject\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtaskid_t\fR \fBgettaskid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/task.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <project.h>

\fBprojid_t\fR \fBgetprojid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B settaskid()
function makes a request of the system to assign a
new task
.B ID
to the calling process, changing the associated project
.B ID
to that specified. The calling process must have sufficient
privileges to perform this operation. The
.I flags
argument should be
either
.B TASK_NORMAL
for a regular task, or
.BR TASK_FINAL ,
which
disallows subsequent
.B settaskid()
calls by the created task.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gettaskid()
function returns the task
.B ID
of the calling
process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getprojid()
function returns the project
.B ID
of the calling
process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the appropriate task or
project
.BR ID .
Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B settaskid()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The invoking task was created with the
.B TASK_FINAL
flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A resource control limiting the number of tasks or LWPs in the current
project or zone has been exceeded.
.sp
A resource control on the given project would be exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The given project
.B ID
is not within the valid project
.BR ID
range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.RB { PRIV_PROC_TASKID }
privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR setsid (2),
.BR project (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
