'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2003,Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setuid 2 "20 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
setuid, setegid, seteuid, setgid \- set user and group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetuid\fR(\fBuid_t\fR \fIuid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetgid\fR(\fBgid_t\fR \fIgid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBseteuid\fR(\fBuid_t\fR \fIeuid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetegid\fR(\fBgid_t\fR \fIegid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B setuid()
function sets the real user ID, effective user ID, and
saved user ID of the calling process. The
.B setgid()
function sets the
real group ID, effective group ID, and saved group ID of the calling
process. The
.B setegid()
and
.B seteuid()
functions set the effective
group and user IDs respectively for the calling process. See
.BR Intro (2)
for more information on real, effective, and saved user and group IDs.
.sp
.LP
At login time, the real user ID, effective user ID, and saved user ID of
the login process are set to the login ID of the user responsible for the
creation of the process. The same is true for the real, effective, and saved
group IDs; they are set to the group ID of the user responsible for the
creation of the process.
.sp
.LP
When a process calls one of the
.BR exec (2)
family of functions to
execute a file (program), the user and/or group identifiers associated with
the process can change. If the file executed is a set-user-ID file, the
effective and saved user IDs of the process are set to the owner of the file
executed. If the file executed is a set-group-ID file, the effective and
saved group IDs of the process are set to the group of the file executed. If
the file executed is not a set-user-ID or set-group-ID file, the effective
user
.BR ID ,
saved user ID, effective group ID, and saved group ID are not
changed.
.sp
.LP
If the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is asserted in the effective set
of the process calling
.BR setuid() ,
the real, effective, and saved user
IDs are set to the
.I uid
argument.  If the
.I uid
argument is 0 and
none of the saved, effective or real UID is 0, additional restrictions
apply. See
.BR privileges (5).
.sp
.LP
If the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is not asserted in the effective
set, but
.I uid
is either the real user ID or the saved user ID of the
calling process, the effective user ID is set to
.IR uid .
.sp
.LP
If the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is asserted in the effective set
of the process calling
.BR setgid() ,
the real, effective, and saved group
IDs are set to the
.I gid
argument.
.sp
.LP
If the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is not asserted in the effective
set, but
.I gid
is either the real group ID or the saved group ID of the
calling process, the effective group ID is set to
.IR gid .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B setuid()
and
.B setgid()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I uid
or
.I gid
is out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
For
.B setuid()
and
.BR seteuid() ,
the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process and
the
.I uid
argument does not match either the real or saved user IDs, or
an attempt is made to change to UID 0 and none of the existing UIDs is 0, in
which case additional privileges are required.
.sp
For
.B setgid()
and
.BR setegid() ,
the
.RB { PRIV_PROC_SETID }
privilege is not asserted in the effective set and the
.I gid
argument
does not match either the real or saved group IDs.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR getgroups (2),
.BR getuid (2),
.BR stat.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
