'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH shmids 2 "8 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
shmids \- discover all shared memory identifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/shm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBshmids\fR(\fBint *\fIbuf\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fInids\fR, \fBuint_t *\fIpnids\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B shmids()
function copies all active shared memory identifiers
from the system into the user-defined buffer specified by
.IR buf ,
provided that the number of such identifiers is not greater than the number
of integers the buffer can contain, as specified by
.IR nids .
If the size
of the buffer is insufficient to contain all of the active shared memory
identifiers in the system, none are copied.
.sp
.LP
Whether or not the size of the buffer is sufficient to contain all of them,
the number of active shared memory identifiers in the system is copied into
the unsigned integer pointed to by
.IR pnids .
.sp
.LP
If
.I nids
is 0 or less than the number of active shared memory
identifiers in the system,
.I buf
is ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B shmids()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B shmids()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I buf
or
.I pnids
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B shmids()
function returns a snapshot of all the active shared
memory identifiers in the system.  More may be added and some may be removed
before they can be used by the caller.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1 shmids()
example
.sp
.LP
This is sample C code indicating how to use the
.B shmids()
function.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
void
examine_shmids()
{
     int *ids = NULL;
     uint_t nids = 0;
     uint_t n;
     int i;

     for (;;) {
          if (shmids(ids, nids, &n) != 0) {
               perror("shmids");
               exit(1);
          }
          if (n <= nids)     /* we got them all */
               break;
          /* we need a bigger buffer */
          ids = realloc(ids, (nids = n) * sizeof (int));
     }

     for (i = 0; i < n; i++)
          process_shmid(ids[i]);

     free(ids);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2),
.BR attributes (5)
