'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sysfs 2 "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
sysfs \- get file system type information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/fstyp.h>
#include <sys/fsid.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsysfs\fR(\fBint\fR \fIopcode\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfsname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsysfs\fR(\fBint\fR \fIopcode\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfs_index\fR, \fBchar *\fIbuf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsysfs\fR(\fBint\fR \fIopcode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sysfs()
function returns information about the file system types
configured in the system.  The number of arguments accepted by \fBsysfs()\fR
depends on the
.I opcode
argument, which can take the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETFSIND
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Translate
.IR fsname ,
a null-terminated file-system type identifier, into
a file-system type index.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETFSTYP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Translate
.IR fs_index ,
a file-system type index, into a null-terminated
file-system type identifier and write it into the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf ,
which must be at least of size
.B FSTYPSZ
as defined in
<\fBsys/fstyp.h\fR>.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETNFSTYP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Return the total number of file system types configured in the system.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends upon the
.I opcode
argument as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETFSIND
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
the file-system type index
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETFSTYP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.B 0
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GETNFSTYP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
the number of file system types configured
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sysfs()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The \fIbuf\fR or \fIfsname\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fsname
argument points to an invalid file-system identifier; the
.I fs_index
argument is 0 or invalid; or the
.I opcode
argument is
invalid.
.RE

