'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH time 2 "28 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
time \- get time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <time.h>

\fBtime_t\fR \fBtime\fR(\fBtime_t *\fItloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B time()
function returns the value of time in seconds since
00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970.
.sp
.LP
If
.I tloc
is non-zero, the return value is also stored in the location
to which
.I tloc
points. If
.I tloc
points to an illegal address,
.B time()
fails and its actions are undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B time()
returns the value of time.
Otherwise,
.B
(time_t)\(mi1 \c
is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stime (2),
.BR ctime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
