'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH times 2 "14 May 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
times \- get process and child process times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/times.h>
#include <limits.h>

\fBclock_t\fR \fBtimes\fR(\fBstruct tms *\fIbuffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B times()
function fills the
.B tms
structure pointed to by
.I buffer
with time-accounting information. The
.B tms
structure,
defined in
.BR <sys/times.h> ,
contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
clock_t    tms_utime;
clock_t    tms_stime;
clock_t    tms_cutime;
clock_t    tms_cstime;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All times are reported in clock ticks. The specific value for a clock tick
is defined by the variable
.BR CLK_TCK ,
found in the header
.RB < limits.h >.
.sp
.LP
The times of a terminated child process are included in the
.B tms_cutime
and
.B tms_cstime
members of the parent when
.BR wait (3C)
or
.BR waitpid (3C)
returns the process
.B ID
of this
terminated child.  If a child process has not waited for its children, their
times will not be included in its times.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tms_utime
member is the
.B CPU
time used while executing
instructions in the user space of the calling process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tms_stime
member is the
.B CPU
time used by the system on
behalf of the calling process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tms_cutime
member is the sum of the
.B tms_utime
and the
.B tms_cutime
of the child processes.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tms_cstime
member is the sum of the
.B tms_stime
and the
.B tms_cstime
of the child processes.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B times()
returns the elapsed real time, in
clock ticks, since an arbitrary point in the past (for example, system
start-up time). This point does not change from one invocation of
.B times()
within the process to another. The return value may overflow
the possible range of type
.BR clock_t .
If
.B times()
fails,
.B
(clock_t)\(mi1 \c
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B times()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I buffer
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR time (1),
.BR timex (1),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR time (2),
.BR waitid (2),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR waitpid (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
