'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uadmin 2 "25 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/uadmin.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuadmin\fR(\fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfcn\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fImdep\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uadmin()
function provides control for basic administrative
functions. This function is tightly coupled to the system administrative
procedures and is not intended for general use. The argument
.I mdep
is
provided for machine-dependent use and is not defined here. It should be
initialized to
.I NULL
if not used.
.sp
.LP
As specified by
.IR cmd ,
the following commands are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SHUTDOWN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The system is shut down. All user processes are killed, the buffer cache is
flushed, and the root file system is unmounted. The action to be taken after
the system has been shut down is specified by
.IR fcn .
The functions are
generic; the hardware capabilities vary on  specific machines.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_HALT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Halt the processor(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_POWEROFF
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Halt the processor(s) and turn off the power.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_BOOT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Reboot the system, using the kernel file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_IBOOT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Interactive reboot; user is prompted for bootable program name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_FASTREBOOT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Bypass BIOS and boot loader
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_REBOOT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The system stops immediately without any further processing. The action to
be taken next is specified by
.I fcn
as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_DUMP
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The system is forced to panic immediately without any further processing
and a crash dump is written to the dump device (see
.BR dumpadm (1M)).
The
action to be taken next is specified by
.IR fcn ,
as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_REMOUNT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The root file system is mounted again after having been fixed. This should
be used only during the startup process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_FREEZE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Suspend the whole system.  The system state is preserved in the state file.
The following subcommands, specified by
.IR fcn ,
are available.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_SUSPEND_TO_DISK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to the state file. This subcommand is equivalent to
ACPI state S4.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_DISK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend to disk. Without performing a system
suspend/resume, this subcommand checks if this feature is currently
available on your system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_SUSPEND_TO_RAM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to memory This subcommand is equivalent to ACPI state
S3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_RAM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend to memory. Without performing a
system suspend/resume, this subcommand checks if this feature is currently
available on your system.
.RE

The following subcommands, specified by
.IR fcn ,
are obsolete and might
be removed in a subsequent release:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_COMPRESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to the state file with compression of data. This
subcommand has been replaced by
.BR AD_SUSPEND_TO_DISK ,
which should be
used instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_CHECK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend and resume.  Without performing a
system suspend/resume, this command checks if this feature is currently
available on your system. This subcommand has been replaced by
.BR AD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_DISK ,
which should be used instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AD_FORCE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force
.B AD_COMPRESS
even when threads of user applications are not
suspendable. This subcommand should never be used, as it might result in
undefined behavior.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on
.I cmd
as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_SHUTDOWN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_REBOOT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_FREEZE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B 0
upon resume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B A_REMOUNT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.BR 0 .
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B uadmin()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Suspend is already in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I cmd
argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Suspend/resume ran out of physical memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Suspend/resume could not allocate enough space on the root file system to
store system information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Suspend/resume is not supported on this platform or the command specified
by
.I cmd
is not allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Unable to successfully suspend system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B A_FREEZE
command and its subcommands are Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dumpadm (1M),
.BR halt (1M),
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR reboot (1M),
.BR uadmin (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Shutting down or halting the system by means of
.BR uadmin "(1M) does not"
update the boot archive. Avoid using this command after
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
editing of files such as
.BR /etc/system
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
installing new driver binaries or kernel binaries
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
updating existing driver binaries or kernel binaries.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Use
.BR reboot "(1M) or"
.BR halt (1M)
instead.
