'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH umask 2 "28 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
umask \- set and get file creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>

\fBmode_t\fR \fBumask\fR(\fBmode_t\fR \fIcmask\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B umask()
function sets the  process's file mode creation mask to
.I cmask
and returns the previous value of the mask. Only the access
permission bits of
.I cmask
and the file mode creation mask are used. The
mask is inherited by child processes. See
.BR Intro (2)
for more
information on masks.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The previous value of the file mode creation mask is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR Intro (2),
.BR chmod (2),
.BR creat (2),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR stat.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
