'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uname 2 "21 Jul 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
uname \- get name of current operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/utsname.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuname\fR(\fBstruct utsname *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uname()
function stores information identifying the current
operating system in the structure pointed to by
.IR name .
.sp
.LP
The
.B uname()
function uses the
.B utsname
structure, defined in
.RB < sys/utsname.h >,
whose members include:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char    sysname[SYS_NMLN];
char    nodename[SYS_NMLN];
char    release[SYS_NMLN];
char    version[SYS_NMLN];
char    machine[SYS_NMLN];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B uname()
function returns a null-terminated character string
naming the current operating system in the character array
.BR sysname .
Similarly, the
.B nodename
member contains the name by which the system
is known on a communications network. The
.B release
and
.BR version
members further identify the operating system. The
.B machine
member
contains a standard name that identifies the hardware on which the operating
system is running.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative value is returned. Otherwise,
.B
\(mi1 \c
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B uname()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I name
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uname (1),
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
