'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH utime 2 "1 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
utime \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <utime.h>

\fBint\fR \fButime\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR, \fBconst struct utimbuf *\fItimes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B utime()
function sets the access and modification times of the
file pointed to by
.IR path ,
and causes the time of the last file status
change (\fBst_ctime\fR) to be updated.
.sp
.LP
If
.I times
is
.IR NULL ,
the access and modification times of the file
are set to the current time. A process must be the owner of the file or have
write permission to use
.B utime()
in this manner.
.sp
.LP
If
.I times
is not
.IR NULL ,
\fItimes\fR is interpreted as a pointer
to a \fButimbuf\fR structure (defined in <\fButime.h\fR>) and the access and
modification times are set to the values contained in the designated
structure. Only the owner of the file or a process that has the
{\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR} privilege asserted in its effective set can use
\fButime()\fR in this manner.
.sp
.LP
The \fButimbuf\fR structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
time_t   actime;    /* access time */
time_t   modtime;   /* modification time */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The times contained in the members of the \fButimbuf\fR structure are
measured in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B utime()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied by a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The process does not have appropriate privileges and is not the owner of
the file, write permission is denied for the file, and
.I times
is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.B utime()
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds
.IR PATH_MAX ,
or the length
of a
.I path
component exceeds
.I NAME_MAX
while
.BR _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The named file does not exist or is a null pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The effective user of the calling process is not the owner of the file,
{\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR} is not asserted in the effective set of the calling
process, and
.I times
is not
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR futimens (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR utimes (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
