'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH utimes 2 "1 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
utimes, futimesat \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>

\fBint\fR \fButimes\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR, \fBconst struct timeval\fR \fItimes\fR[2]);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfutimesat\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpath\fR,
     \fBconst struct timeval\fR \fItimes\fR[2]);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B utimes()
function sets the access and modification times of the
file pointed to by the
.I path
argument to the value of the
.IR times
argument. It allows time specifications accurate to the microsecond.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfutimesat()\fR function also sets access and modification times.
See
.BR fsattr (5).
If
.I path
is a relative path name, however,
\fBfutimesat()\fR resolves the path relative to the \fIfildes\fR argument
rather than the current working directory.  If \fIfildes\fR is set to
.BR AT_FDCWD ,
defined in <\fBfcntl.h\fR>, \fBfutimesat()\fR resolves the
path relative to the current working directory.  If
.I path
is a null
pointer, \fBfutimesat()\fR sets the access and modification times on the
file referenced by
.IR fildes .
The \fIfildes\fR argument is ignored even
when \fBfutimesat()\fR is provided with an absolute path.
.sp
.LP
The
.I times
argument is an array of
.B timeval
structures. The first
array member represents the date and time of last access, and the second
member represents the date and time of last modification.  The times in the
\fBtimeval\fR structure are measured in seconds and microseconds since the
Epoch, although rounding toward the nearest second may occur.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I times
argument is a null pointer, the access and modification
times of the file are set to the current time.  The effective user \fBID\fR
of the process must be the same as the owner of the file, or must have write
access to the file or the {\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR} privilege to use this call
in this manner. Upon completion,
.B utimes()
will mark the time of the
last file status change,
.BR st_ctime ,
for update.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned,
.B errno
is set to indicate the error, and the file times will
not be affected.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B utimes()
and \fBfutimesat()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied by a component of the path prefix; or the
\fItimes\fR argument is a null pointer and the effective user \fBID\fR of
the process does not match the owner of the file and write access is
denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
or
.I times
argument points to an illegal address. For
\fBfutimesat()\fR, \fIpath\fR might have the value \fINULL\fR if the
\fIfildes\fR argument refers to a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A signal was caught during the execution of the
.B utimes()
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The number of microseconds specified in one or both of the
.BR timeval
structures pointed to by
.I times
was greater than or equal to 1,000,000
or less than 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\fIPATH_MAX\fR} or a
pathname component is longer than {\fINAME_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument points to a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of
.I path
does not name an existing file or
.I path
is
an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix is not a directory or the
.IR path
argument is relative and the \fIfildes\fR argument is not
.B AT_FDCWD
or
does not refer to a valid directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I times
argument is not a null pointer and the calling process's
effective user
.B ID
has write access to the file but does not match the
owner of the file and the calling process does not have the appropriate
privileges.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The file system containing the file is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B utimes()
and \fBfutimesat()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Path name resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result
whose length exceeds {\fIPATH_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For
.BR utimes() ,
see
.BR standards (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfutimens\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2),
.BR utime (2),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBfsattr\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
