'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uucopy 2 "12 Sep 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
uucopy \- no-fault memory-to-memory copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <strings.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuucopy\fR(\fBconst void *\fIs1\fR, \fBvoid *\fIs2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uucopy()
function copies
.I n
bytes from memory area
.IR s1
to
.IR s2 .
Copying  between objects that overlap could corrupt one or
both buffers.
.sp
.LP
Unlike
.BR bcopy (3C),
\fBuucopy()\fR does not cause a segmentation fault
if either the source or destination buffer includes an illegal address.
Instead, it returns \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to
.BR EFAULT .
This error
could occur after the operation has partially completed, so the contents of
the buffer at
.I s2
are defined if the operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B uucopy()
returns 0.  Otherwise, the
function returns \(mi1 and set
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B uucopy()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Either the
.I s1
or
.I s2
arguments points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bcopy (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
