'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH waitid 2 "9 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
waitid \- wait for child process to change state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wait.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwaitid\fR(\fBidtype_t\fR \fIidtype\fR, \fBid_t\fR \fIid\fR, \fBsiginfo_t *\fIinfop\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoptions\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B waitid()
function suspends the calling process until one of its
child processes changes state. It records the current state of a child in
the structure pointed to by
.IR infop .
It returns immediately if a child
process changed state prior to the call.
.sp
.LP
The
.I idtype
and
.I id
arguments specify which children
.B waitid()
is to wait for, as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I idtype
is
.BR P_PID ,
.B waitid()
waits for the child with a
process
.B ID
equal to \fB(pid_t)\fIid\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I idtype
is
.BR P_PGID ,
.B waitid()
waits for any child with a
process group
.B ID
equal to \fB(pid_t)\fIid\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I idtype
is
.BR P_ALL ,
.B waitid()
waits for any child and
.I id
is ignored.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.I options
argument is used to specify which state changes
.B waitid()
is to wait for. It is formed by bitwise
.B OR
operation of
any of the following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WCONTINUED
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Return the status for any child that was stopped and has been continued.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WEXITED
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Wait for process(es) to exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WNOHANG
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Return immediately.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WNOWAIT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Keep the process in a waitable state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WSTOPPED
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Wait for and return the process status of any child that has  stopped upon
receipt of a signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WTRAPPED
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Wait for traced process(es) to become trapped or reach a breakpoint (see
.BR ptrace (3C)).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.IR infop " argument must point to a "
.B siginfo_t
structure, as
defined in
.BR siginfo.h (3HEAD).
If
.B waitid()
returns because a child
process was found that satisfies the conditions indicated by the arguments
.I idtype
and
.IR options ,
then the structure pointed to by
.I infop
will be filled by the system with the status of the process. The
.B si_signo
member will always be equal to
.BR SIGCHLD .
.sp
.LP
One instance of a
.B SIGCHLD
signal is queued for each child process
whose status has changed. If
.B waitid()
returns because the status of a
child process is available and
.B WNOWAIT
was not specified in
.IR options ,
any pending
.B SIGCHLD
signal associated with the process
ID of that child process is discarded. Any other pending
.B SIGCHLD
signals remain pending.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.B waitid()
returns due to a change of state of one of its children
and
.B WNOHANG
was not used,
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and 
.B errno
is set to indicate the error. If
.B WNOHANG
was used,
.B 0
can be returned (indicating no error);
however, no children may have changed state if
.B info->si_pid
is
.BR 0 .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B waitid()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECHILD
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The set of processes specified by
.I idtype
and
.I id
does not
contain any unwaited processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I infop
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B waitid()
function was interrupted due to the receipt of a signal
by the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An invalid value was specified for
.IR options ,
or
.I idtype
and
.I id
specify an invalid set of processes.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
With
.I options
equal to
.B WEXITED
|
.BR WTRAPPED ,
.B waitid()
is equivalent to
.BR waitpid (3C).
With \fIidtype\fR equal to \fBP_ALL\fR
and
.I options
equal to
.B WEXITED
|
.BR WTRAPPED ,
.B waitid()
is
equivalent to
.BR wait (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR exit (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR pause (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR ptrace (3C),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR siginfo.h (3HEAD),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR waitpid (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
