'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH objfs 7FS "30 August 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Systems"
.SH NAME
objfs \- Kernel object filesystem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B objfs
filesystem describes the state of all modules currently
loaded by the kernel. It is mounted during boot at
.BR /system/object .
.sp
.LP
The contents of the filesystem are dynamic and reflect the current state of
the system. Each module is represented by a directory containing a single
file, 'object.' The object file is a read only ELF file which contains
information about the object loaded in the kernel.
.sp
.LP
The kernel may load and unload modules dynamically as the system runs. As a
result, applications may observe different directory contents in
.B /system/object
if they repeatedly rescan the directory. If a module is
unloaded, its associated
.B /system/object
files disappear from the
hierarchy and subsequent attempts to open them, or to read files opened
before the module unloaded, elicits an error.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /system/object
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Mount point for objfs file system
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR vfstab (4)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The content of the ELF files is private to the implementation and subject
to change without notice.
