'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sharefs 7FS "31 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "File Systems"
.SH NAME
sharefs \- Kernel sharetab filesystem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sharefs
filesystem describes the state of all shares currently
loaded by the kernel. It is mounted during boot time as a read-only file at
.BR /etc/dfs/sharetab .
.sp
.LP
Filesystem contents are dynamic and  reflect  the current set of shares in
the system. File contents are described in
.BR sharetab (4).
.sp
.LP
File contents can be modified as a result of
.BR share (1M),
.BR sharectl (1M),
.BR sharemgr (1M)
and changing properties of a
.BR zfs (1M)
data set.
.sp
.LP
The module may not be unloaded dynamically by the kernel.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/dfs/sharetab
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
System record of shared file systems.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR share (1M),
.BR sharectl (1M),
.BR sharemgr (1M),
.BR zfs (1M),
.BR sharetab (4)
