'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ct 1C "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "Communication Commands"
.SH NAME
ct \- spawn login to a remote terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBct\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fItelno\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ct
utility dials the telephone number of a modem that is attached
to a terminal and spawns a
.B login
process to that terminal. The
.I telno
is a telephone number, with equal signs for secondary dial tones
and minus signs for delays at appropriate places. (The set of legal
characters for
.I telno
is 0 through 9, -, =, *, and #. The maximum
length
.I telno
is 31 characters). If more than one telephone number is
specified,
.B ct
will try each in succession until one answers; this is
useful for specifying alternate dialing paths.
.sp
.LP
.B ct
will try each line listed in the file
.BR /etc/uucp/Devices
until it finds an available line with appropriate attributes, or runs out of
entries.
.sp
.LP
After the user on the destination terminal logs out, there are two things
that could occur depending on what type of port monitor is monitoring the
port. In the case of no port monitor,
.B ct
prompts:
.B Reconnect?
If
the response begins with the letter
.BR n ,
the line will be dropped;
otherwise,
.B ttymon
will be started again and the
.B login:
prompt
will be printed. In the second case, where a port monitor is monitoring the
port, the port monitor reissues the
.B login:
prompt.
.sp
.LP
The user should log out properly before disconnecting.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Normally,
.B ct
will hang up the current line so that it can be used to
answer the incoming call.  The
.B -h
option will prevent this action. The
.B -h
option will also wait for the termination of the specified
.BR ct
process before returning control to the user's terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-s\fIspeed\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The data rate may be set with the
.B -s
option.
.I speed
is expressed
in baud rates.  The default baud rate is 1200.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If the
.B -v
(verbose) option is used,
.B ct
will send a running
narrative to the standard error output stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-w\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If there are no free lines
.B ct
will ask if it should wait, and for how
many minutes,  before it gives up.
.B ct
will continue to try to open the
dialers at one-minute intervals until the specified limit is exceeded. This
dialogue may be overridden by specifying the \fB-w\fIn\fR option. \fIn\fR
is the maximum number of minutes that
.B ct
is to wait for a line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-x\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This option is used for debugging; it produces a detailed output of the
program execution on stderr.
.I n
is a single number between 0 and 9. As
.I n
increases to 9, more detailed debugging information is given.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/adm/ctlog
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbnuu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cu (1C),
.BR login (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR ttymon (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ct
program will not work with a DATAKIT Multiplex interface.
.sp
.LP
For a shared port, one used for both dial-in and dial-out, the \fBttymon\fR
program running on the line must have the
.B -r
and
.B -b
options
specified (see
.BR ttymon (1M)).
