'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cu 1C "11 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Communication Commands"
.SH NAME
cu \- call another UNIX system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcu\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIdevice\fR | \fB-l\fR \fIline\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIspeed\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbits\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-n\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-o\fR | \fB-e\fR] [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-H\fR] \fI telno\fR | \fIsystemname\fR
     [\fIlocal-cmd\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The command
.B cu
calls up another UNIX system, a terminal, or possibly
a non-UNIX system. It manages an interactive conversation with possible
transfers of files. It is convenient to think of
.B cu
as operating in
two phases. The first phase is the connection phase in which the connection
is established.
.B cu
.RB "then enters the conversation phase. The" " -d"
option is the only one that applies to both phases.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
.B cu
accepts many options. The
.BR -c ,
.BR -l ,
and
.B -s
options
play a part in selecting the medium. The remaining options are used in
configuring the line.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.I bits
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Forces
.I bits
to be the number of bits processed on the line.
.I bits
is either
.B 7
or
.BR 8 .
This allows connection between
systems with different character sizes.  By default, the character size of
the line is set to the same value as the current local terminal, but the
character size setting is affected by
.B LC_CTYPE
also.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.I device
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Forces \fBcu\fR to use only entries in the "Type" field (the first field in
the
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file) that match the user specified
.IR device ,
usually the name of a local area network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Runs the
.I local-cmd
specified at the end of the command line instead
of entering interactive mode. The
.B stdin
and
.B stdout
of the
command that is run refer to the remote connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Prints diagnostic traces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sets an EVEN data parity.  This option designates that EVEN parity is to be
generated for data sent to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -h
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sets communication mode to half-duplex.  This option emulates local echo in
order to support calls to other computer systems that expect terminals to be
set to half-duplex mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -H
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Ignores one hangup. This allows the user to remain in
.B cu
while the
remote machine disconnects and places a call back to the local machine.
This option should be used when connecting to systems with callback or
dialback modems. Once the callback occurs subsequent hangups will cause
.B cu
to terminate.  This option can be specified more than once. For
more information about dialback configuration, see
.BR remote (4)
and
.I System Administration Guide: IP Services
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.I line
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies a device name to use as the communication line. This can be used
to override the search that would otherwise take place for the first
available line having the right speed. When the
.B -l
option is used
without the
.B -s
option, the speed of a line is taken from the
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file record in which
.I line
matches the second
field (the Line field). When the
.B -l
and
.B -s
options are both used
together,
.B cu
will search the
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file to check if
the requested speed for the requested line is available. If so, the
connection will be made at the requested speed, otherwise, an error message
will be printed and the call will not be made.  In the general case where a
specified device is a directly connected asynchronous line (for instance,
.BR /dev/term/a ),
a telephone number 
.RI ( telno )
is not required. The
specified device need not be in the
.B /dev
directory. If the specified
device is associated with an auto dialer, a telephone number must be
provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -L
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Goes through the login chat sequence specified in the
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
file. For more information about the chat sequence,
see
.IR "System Administration Guide: IP Services"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Requests user prompt for telephone number.  For added security, this option
will prompt the user to provide the telephone number to be dialed, rather
than taking it from the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Sets an ODD data parity.  This option designates that ODD parity is to be
generated for data sent to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I speed
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the transmission speed
.RB ( 300 ,
.BR 1200 ,
.BR 2400 ,
.BR 4800 ,
.BR 9600 ,
.BR 19200 ,
.BR 38400 ).
The default value is
"Any" speed which will depend on the order of the lines in the
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Dials a terminal which has been set to auto answer. Appropriate mapping of
carriage-return to carriage-return-line-feed pairs is set.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I telno
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
When using an automatic dialler, specifies the telephone number with equal
signs for secondary dial tone or minus signs placed appropriately for delays
of 4 seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I systemname
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Specifies a
.B uucp
system name, which can be used rather than a
telephone number; in this case,
.B cu
will obtain an appropriate direct
line or telephone number from a system file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Connection Phase"
.sp
.LP
.B cu
uses the same mechanism that
.BR uucp "(1C) does to establish a"
connection. This means that it will use the
.B uucp
control files
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
and
.BR /etc/uucp/Systems .
This gives
.B cu
the
ability to choose from several different media to establish the connection.
The possible media include telephone lines, direct connections, and local
area networks
.RB ( LAN ).
The
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file contains a list
of media that are available on your system. The
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
file
contains information for connecting to remote systems, but it is not
generally readable.
.sp
.LP
.B Note: cu
determines which
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
and
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
files to use based upon the name used to invoke
\fBcu\fR. In the simple case, this name will be "\fBcu\fR", but you could
also have created a link to
.B cu
with another name, such as
"\fBpppcu\fR", in which case \fBcu\fR would then look for a "service=pppcu"
entry in the
.B /etc/uucp/Sysfiles
file to determine which
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
file to use.
.sp
.LP
The
.I telno
or
.I systemname
parameter from the command line is used
to tell
.B cu
what system you wish to connect to. This parameter can be
blank, a telephone number, a system name, or a
.B LAN
specific address.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B telephone number
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A telephone number is a string consisting of the tone dial characters (the
digits
.B 0
through
.BR 9 ,
.BR * ,
and
.BR # )
plus the special
characters
.B =
and \fB\(mi\fR\&. The equal sign designates a secondary
dial tone and the minus sign creates a
.B 4
second delay.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B system name
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A system name is the name of any computer that
.B uucp
can call; the
.BR uuname (1C)
command prints a list of these names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LAN address
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The documentation for your
.B LAN
will show the form of the
.BR LAN
specific address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If
.BR cu 's
default behavior is invoked (not using the
.B -c
or
.B -l
options),
.B cu
will use the
.I telno
or
.IR systemname
parameter to determine which medium to use. If a telephone number is
specified,
.B cu
will assume that you wish to use a telephone line and it
will select an automatic call unit
.RB ( ACU ).
Otherwise,
.B cu
will
assume that it is a system name.
.B cu
will follow the
.B uucp
calling
mechanism and use the
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
and
.BR /etc/uucp/Devices
files to obtain the best available connection. Since
.B cu
will choose a
speed that is appropriate for the medium that it selects, you may not use
the
.B -s
option when this parameter is a system name.
.sp
.LP
The
.B -c
and
.B -l
options modify this default behavior.
.B -c
is
most often used to select a
.B LAN
by specifying a Type field from the
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file. You must include either a
.I telno
or
.I systemname
value when using the
.B -c
option. If the connection to
.I systemname
fails, a connection will be attempted using
.I systemname
as a
.B LAN
specific address. The
.B -l
option is
used to specify a device associated with a direct connection. If the
connection is truly a direct connection to the remote machine, then there is
no need to specify a
.IR systemname .
This is the only case where a
.I telno
or
.I systemname
parameter is unnecessary. On the other hand,
there may be cases in which the specified device connects to a dialer, so it
is valid to specify a telephone number. The
.B -c
and
.B -l
options
should not be specified on the same command line.
.SS "Conversation Phase"
.sp
.LP
After making the connection,
.B cu
runs as two processes. The
.B transmit
process reads data from the standard input and, except for
lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the remote system. The
.B receive
process accepts data from the remote system and, except for
lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the standard output. Normally, an
automatic DC3/DC1 protocol is used to control input from the remote so the
buffer is not overrun. Lines beginning with
.B ~
have special meanings.
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.LP
The
.B transmit
process interprets the following user initiated
commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~.
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Terminates the conversation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~!
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Escapes to an interactive shell on the local system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~!\fIcmd\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Runs
.I cmd
on the local system (via
.BR "sh -c" ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~$\fIcmd\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Runs
.I cmd
locally and send its output to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%cd
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Changes the directory on the local system. Note:
.B ~!cd
will cause the
command to be run by a sub-shell, probably not what was intended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~%take\fR
.I from
\&\|[\fI\|to\fR\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Copies file
.I from
(on the remote system) to file
.I to
on the local
system. If
.I to
is omitted, the
.I from
argument is used in both
places.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~%put\fR \fI\|from\fR \|[\fI\|to\fR\|]\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Copies file
.I from
(on local system) to file
.I to
on remote system.
If
.I to
is omitted, the
.I from
argument is used in both places.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~~\fI\|line\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Sends the line
.B ~
.I line
to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%break
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Transmits a
.B BREAK
to the remote system (which can also be specified
as
.BR ~%b ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%debug
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Toggles the
.B -d
debugging option on or off (which can also be
specified as
.BR ~%d ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~t
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Prints the values of the termio structure variables for the user's terminal
(useful for debugging).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~l
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Prints the values of the termio structure variables for the remote
communication line (useful for debugging).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%ifc
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Toggles between DC3/DC1 input control protocol and no input control. This
is useful when the remote system does not respond properly to the DC3 and
DC1 characters (can also be specified as
.BR \(ap%nostop ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%ofc
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Toggles the output flow control setting.  When enabled, outgoing data may
be flow controlled by the remote host (can also be specified as
.BR \(ap%noostop ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%divert
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Allows/disallows unsolicited diversions.  That is, diversions not specified
by
.BR ~%take .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%old
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Allows/disallows old style syntax for received diversions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~%nostop
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Same as
.BR ~%ifc .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B receive
process normally copies data from the remote system to
the standard output of the local system.  It may also direct the output to
local files.
.sp
.LP
The use of
.B ~%put
requires
.BR stty (1)
and
.BR cat (1)
on the
remote side. It also requires that the current erase and kill characters on
the remote system be identical to these current control characters on the
local system. Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.sp
.LP
The use of
.B ~%take
requires the existence of
.BR echo (1)
and
.BR cat (1)
on the remote system, and that the remote system must be using
the Bourne shell,
.BR sh .
Also,
.B tabs
mode (see
.BR stty (1))
should
be set on the remote system if tabs are to be copied without expansion to
spaces.
.sp
.LP
When
.B cu
is used on system X to connect to system Y and subsequently
used on system Y to connect to system Z, commands on system Y can be
executed by using \fB~\|~\fR. Executing a tilde command reminds the user of
the local system
.BR uname .
For example,
.B uname
can be executed on Z,
X, and Y as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uname
Z
~[X]!uname
X
~~[Y]!uname
Y
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In general,
.B ~
causes the command to be executed on the original
machine. \fB~\|~\fR causes the command to be executed on the next machine in
the chain.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Dialling a system
.sp
.LP
To dial a system whose telephone number is
.B "9 1"
.B 201
.B 555 1234
using
.B 1200
baud (where dialtone is expected
after the
.BR 9 ):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcu \fB-s\fB 1200 9=12015551234\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the speed is not specified, "Any" is the default value.

.LP
.B Example 2
Logging in to a system on a direct line
.sp
.LP
To login to a system connected by a direct line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcu \fB-l\fB /dev/term/b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcu \fB-l\fB term/b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Dialling a system with specific line and speed
.sp
.LP
To dial a system with a specific line and speed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcu \fB-s\fB 1200 \fB-l\fB term/b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Using a system name
.sp
.LP
To use a system name:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcu systemname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR cu :
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
device file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Sysfiles
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
system file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
system file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/locks/*
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
lock file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbnuu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cat (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR tip (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR ct (1C),
.BR uuname (1C),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR remote (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: IP Services
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B cu
utility takes the default action upon receipt of signals, with
the exception of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGHUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Close the connection and terminate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGINT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Forward to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGQUIT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Forward to the remote system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGUSR1
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Terminate the
.B cu
process without the normal connection closing
sequence.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B cu
command does not do any integrity checking on data it
transfers. Data fields with special
.B cu
characters may not be
transmitted properly. Depending on the interconnection hardware, it may be
necessary to use a
.B ~.
to terminate the conversion, even if \fBstty 0\fR has been used. Non-printing characters are not dependably transmitted
using either the
.B ~%put
or
.B ~%take
commands.
.B ~%put
and
.B ~%take
cannot be used  over multiple links.  Files must be moved one
link at a time.
.sp
.LP
There is an artificial slowing of transmission by
.B cu
during the
.B ~%put
operation so that loss of data is unlikely.  Files transferred
using
.B ~%take
or
.B ~%put
must contain a trailing newline,
otherwise, the operation will hang.  Entering a Control-D command usually
clears the hang condition.
