'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uuto 1C "28 Mar 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "Communication Commands"
.SH NAME
uuto, uupick \- public UNIX-to-UNIX system file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuuto\fR [\fB-mp\fR] \fIsource-file\fR.\|.\|. \fIdestination\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuupick\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsystem\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "uuto"
.sp
.LP
.B uuto
sends
.I source-file
to
.IR destination .
.B uuto
uses
the
.BR uucp (1C)
facility to send files, while it allows the local system
to control the file access. A source-file name is a path name on your
machine. Destination has the form:
.sp
.LP
\fBsystem\fR[\fI!system\fR]\fI .\|.\|. !user\fR
.sp
.LP
where
.B system
is taken from a list of system names that
.BR uucp
knows about.
.I User
is the login name of someone on the specified
system.
.sp
.LP
The files (or sub-trees if directories are specified) are sent to
.B PUBDIR
on
.BR system ,
where
.B PUBDIR
is a public directory
defined in the
.B uucp
source. By default, this directory is
.BR /var/spool/uucppublic .
Specifically the files are sent to
.sp
.LP
\fBPUBDIR/receive/\fIuser\fR/\fImysystem\fR/files.
.sp
.LP
The recipient is notified by
.BR mail (1)
of the arrival of files.
.SS "uupick"
.sp
.LP
.B uupick
accepts or rejects the files transmitted to the user.
Specifically,
.B uupick
searches
.B PUBDIR
for files destined for the
user. For each entry (file or directory) found, the following message is
printed on standard output:
.sp
.LP
\fBfrom system \fIsysname\fB:\fR [file \fIfile-name\fR] [dir
.BR dirname ]
\fB?\fR
.sp
.LP
.B uupick
then reads a line from standard input to determine the
disposition of the file:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <new-line>
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Go to next entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Delete the entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
[
.IR dir " ]"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Move the entry to named directory
.I dir.
If
.I dir
is not specified
as a complete path name (in which
.B $HOME
is legitimate), a
destination relative to the current directory is assumed.  If no destination
is given, the default is the current directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B a
[
.IR dir " ]"
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Same as
.B m
above, except it moves all the files sent from
.BR system .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Print the content of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B q
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Stop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOT (control-d)
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Same as
.BR q .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !command
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Escape to the shell to do
.BR command .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B *
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Print a command summary.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "uuto"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by
.BR uuto :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -m
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Send mail to the sender when the copy is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Copy the source file into the spool directory before transmission.
.RE

.SS "uupick"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by
.BR uupick :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -s " system"
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Search only the
.B PUBDIR
for files sent from
.BR system .
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for
.BR uuto :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I destination
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A string of the form:
.sp
\fIsystem-name\fB\|!\|\fIuser\fR
.sp
where
.I system-name
is taken from a list of system names that
.B uucp
knows about; see
.BR uuname .
The argument
.I user
is the
login name of someone on the specified system. The destination
.I system-name
can also be a list of names such as
.sp
.IR system-name \|\fB!\fR\|\fIsystem-name\|\fB!\|\fR.\|.\|.\fB\|!\|\fIsystem-name\|\fB!\fI\|user\fR
.sp
in which case, an attempt is made to send the file via the specified route
to the destination. Care should be taken to ensure that intermediate nodes
in the route are willing to forward information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I source-file
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A pathname of a file on the local system to be copied to
.IR destination .
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.B uuto
and
.BR uupick :
.BR LC_TYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PUBDIR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
.B /var/spool/uucppublic
public directory
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbnuu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR uux (1C),
.BR uucleanup (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In order to send files that begin with a dot (for instance,
\fB\&.profile\fR), the files must  be qualified with a dot.  For example,
the following files are correct:
.sp
.LP
\fB\|          .profile        .prof*       .profil?\fR
.sp
.LP
The following files are incorrect:
.sp
.LP
.B           *prof*        ?profile
