'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH uux 1C "28 Mar 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "Communication Commands"
.SH NAME
uux \- UNIX-to-UNIX system command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuux\fR [\fB-\fR] [\fB-bcCjnprz\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgrade\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fIdebug_level\fR] \fIcommand-string\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B uux
utility will gather zero or more files from various systems,
execute a command on a specified system and then send standard output to a
file on a specified system.
.sp
.LP
.B Note:
For security reasons, most installations limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.BR uux ,
permitting only the receipt of mail (see
.BR mail (1)).
(Remote execution
permissions are defined in
.BR /etc/uucp/Permissions .)
.sp
.LP
The
.I command-string
is made up of one or more arguments that look like
a shell command line, except that the command and file names may be prefixed
by \fIsystem-name\fB!\fR. A null
.I system-name
is interpreted as the
local system.
.sp
.LP
File names may be one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An absolute path name.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A path name preceded by \fB~\fIxxx\fR, where
.I xxx
is a login name
on the specified system and is replaced by that user's login directory.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.sp
.LP
As an example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuux "!diff sys1!/home/dan/filename1 \e
       sys2!/a4/dan/filename2 > !~/dan/filename.diff"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will get the \fBfilename1\fR and
.B filename2
files from the \fBsys1\fR
and
.B sys2
machines, execute a
.BR diff (1)
command and put the results
in
.B filename.diff
in the local \fIPUBDIR\fB/dan/\fR directory.
.I PUBDIR
is a public directory defined in the
.B uucp
source. By
default, this directory is
.BR /var/spool/uucppublic .
.sp
.LP
Any special shell characters
.RB "(such as " "< > ; |" )
should be quoted
either by quoting the entire
.IR command-string ,
or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments. The redirection operators
.BR >> ,
.BR << ,
.BR >| ,
and
.B >&
cannot be used.
.sp
.LP
.B uux
will attempt to get all appropriate files to the specified system
where they will be processed. For files that are output files, the file name
must be escaped using parentheses. For example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuux "a!cut -f1 b!/usr/filename > c!/usr/filename"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
gets
.B /usr/filename
from system
.B b
and sends it to system
.BR a ,
performs a
.B cut
command on that file and sends the result of
the
.B cut
command to system
.BR c .
.sp
.LP
.B uux
will notify you if the requested command on the remote system was
disallowed. This notification can be turned off by the
.B -n
option. The
response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\(mi\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The standard input to
.B uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a
.I name
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Uses
.I name
as the user job identification replacing the initiator
user-id. (Notification will be returned to user-id
.IR name .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Returns whatever standard input was provided to the
.B uux
command if
the exit status is non-zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Does not copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -C
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Forces the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -g
.I grade
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
.I grade
can be either a single letter, number, or a string of
alphanumeric characters defining a service grade. The
.BR uuglist (1C)
command determines whether it is appropriate to use the single letter,
number, or a string of alphanumeric characters as a service grade. The
output from the
.I uuglist
command will be a list of service grades that
are available or a message that says to use a single letter or number as a
grade of service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -j
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Outputs the jobid string on the standard output which is the job
identification. This job identification can be used by
.BR uustat (1C)
to
obtain the status  or terminate a job.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Does not notify the user if the command fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Same as \fB\(mi\fR\&. The standard input to
.B uux
is made the standard
input to the
.IR command-string .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -r
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Does not start the file transfer, but just queues the job.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.I filename
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Reports status of the transfer in
.IR filename .
This option is accepted
for compatibility, but it is ignored because it is insecure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -x
.I debug_level
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Produces debugging output on the standard output.
.I debug_level
is a
number between 0 and 9. As
.I debug_level
increases to 9, more detailed
debugging information is given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -z
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Sends success notification to the user.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment
variables that affect the execution of
.BR uux :
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/*
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
other data and programs
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/uucp/Permissions
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
remote execution permissions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/uucp/*
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
other programs
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/spool/uucp
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
spool directories
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbnuu
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cut (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uuglist (1C),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The execution of commands on remote systems takes place in an execution
directory known to the
.B uucp
system.
.sp
.LP
All files required for the execution will be put into this directory unless
they already reside on that machine. Therefore, the simple file name
(without path or machine reference) must be unique within the
.B uux
request. The following command will NOT work:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuux "a!diff b!/home/dan/xyz c!/home/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
But the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuux "a!diff a!/home/dan/xyz c!/home/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
.I will
work (if
.B diff
is a permitted command.)
.sp
.LP
Protected files and files that are in protected directories that are owned
by the requester can be sent in commands using
.BR uux .
However, if the
requester is root, and the directory is not searchable by "other", the
request will fail.
.sp
.LP
The following restrictions apply to the shell pipeline processed by
.BR uux :
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In gathering files from different systems, pathname expansion in not
performed by
.BR uux .
Thus, a request such as
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    \fBuux "c89 remsys!~/*.c"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

would attempt to copy the file named literally
.B *.c
to the local
system.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may have a
\fIsystem-name\fB!\fR. All other commands are executed on the system of
the first command.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B *
will probably not do what you
want it to do.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The redirection operators
.BR >> ,
.BR << ,
.BR >| ,
and
.B >&
cannot
be used.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The reserved word
.B !
cannot be used at the head of the pipeline to
modify the exit status.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Alias substitution is not performed.
.RE
