'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_get_next_by_row 3PICL "28 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_get_next_by_row, picl_get_next_by_col \- access a table property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_next_by_row\fR(\fBpicl_prophdl_t\fR \fIproph\fR,
     \fBpicl_prophdl_t *\fIcolh\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_next_by_col\fR(\fBpicl_prophdl_t\fR \fIproph\fR,
     \fBpicl_prophdl_t *\fIcolh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_get_next_by_row()
function copies the handle of the property
that is in the next column of the table and on the same row as the property
.IR proph .
The handle is copied into the location given by
.IR rowh .
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_get_next_by_col()
function copies the handle of the property
that is in the next row of the table and on the same column as the property
.IR proph .
The handle is copied into the location given by
.IR colh .
.sp
.LP
If there are no more rows or columns, this function returns the value
.BR PICL_ENDOFLIST .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. On failure, a non-negative
integer is returned to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
is returned if the handle is no longer valid. This
occurs if the PICL tree was refreshed or reinitialized.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
is returned if the specified handle never existed.
This error may be returned for a previously valid handle if the daemon was
brought down and restarted. When this occurs a client must revalidate any
saved handles.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTINITIALIZED
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NORESPONSE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTTABLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Not a table
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Invalid handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Stale handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_ENDOFLIST
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR picl_get_propval (3PICL),
.BR attributes (5)
