'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_get_prop_by_name 3PICL "28 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_get_prop_by_name \- get the handle of the property by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_prop_by_name\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t\fR \fInodeh\fR, \fBchar *\fIname\fR,
     \fBpicl_prophdl_t *\fIproph\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_get_prop_by_name()
function gets the handle of the property
of node
.I nodeh
whose name is specified in
.IR name .
The handle is
copied into the location specified by
.IR proph .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. On failure, a non-negative
integer is returned to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_PROPNOTFOUND
is returned if the property of the specified name
does not exist.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_RESERVEDNAME
is returned if the property name specified is one
of the reserved property names.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
is returned if the handle is no longer valid. This
occurs if the PICL tree was refreshed or reinitialized.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
is returned if the specified handle never existed.
This error may be returned for a previously valid handle if the daemon was
brought down and restarted. When this occurs a client must revalidate any
saved handles.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTINITIALIZED
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NORESPONSE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTNODE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Not a node
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_PROPNOTFOUND
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Property not found
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_RESERVEDNAME
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Reserved property name specified
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Invalid handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Stale handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
