'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_wait 3PICL "28 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_wait \- wait for PICL tree to refresh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_wait\fR(\fBint\fR \fIto_secs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_wait()
function blocks the calling thread until the PICL
tree is refreshed. The
.I to_secs
argument specifies the timeout for the
call in number of seconds. A value of \(mi1 for \fIto_secs\fR specifies no
timeout.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_wait()
function returns
.B 0
to indicate that PICL tree
has refreshed. Otherwise, a non-negative integer is returned to indicate
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTINITIALIZED
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NORESPONSE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_TIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Timed out waiting for refresh
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
