'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_get_frutree_parent 3PICL "5 Feb 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_get_frutree_parent \- get frutree parent node for a given device
node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_frutree_parent\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t\fR \fIdevh\fR,
     \fBpicl_nodehdl_t *\fIfrutreeh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The devices under the
.B /platform
subtree of the PICLTREE are linked to
their FRU containers represented in the
.B /frutree
using PICL reference
properties. The
.B picl_get_frutree_parent()
function returns the handle
of the node in the
.B /frutree
subtree that is the FRU parent or
container of the the device specified by the node handle,
.IR devh .
The
handle is returned in the
.I frutreeh
argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise a non-negative integer
is returned to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Invalid handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_PROPNOTFOUND
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Property not found
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Stale handle
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR picl_get_propinfo (3PICL),
.BR picl_get_propval (3PICL),
.BR picl_get_propval_by_name (3PICL),
.BR picl_get_prop_by_name (3PICL),
.BR attributes (5)
