'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_set_propval 3PICL "28 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_set_propval, picl_set_propval_by_name \- set the value of a property
to the specified value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_set_propval\fR(\fBpicl_prophdl_t\fR \fIproph\fR, \fBvoid *\fIvalbuf\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpicl_set_propval_by_name\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t\fR \fInodeh\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpname\fR, \fBvoid *\fIvalbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_set_propval()
function sets the value of the property
specified by the handle
.I proph
to the value contained in the buffer
.IR valbuf .
The argument
.I nbytes
specifies the size of the buffer
.IR valbuf .
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_set_propval_by_name()
function sets the value of the
property named
.I pname
of the node specified by the handle
.IR nodeh
to the value contained in the buffer
.IR valbuf .
The argument
.IR nbytes
specifies the size of the buffer
.IR valbuf .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. On failure, a non-negative
integer is returned to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_PERMDENIED
is returned if the client does not have sufficient
permission to access the property.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
is returned if the handle is no longer valid. This
occurs if the PICL tree was refreshed or reinitialized.
.sp
.LP
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
is returned if the specified handle never existed.
This error may be returned for a previously valid handle if the daemon was
brought down and restarted. When this occurs a client must revalidate any
saved handles.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTINITIALIZED
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NORESPONSE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_PERMDENIED
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Insufficient permission
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTWRITABLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Property is read-only
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_VALUETOOBIG
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Value too big
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTPROP
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Not a property
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTNODE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Not a node
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_INVALIDHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Invalid handle specified
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_STALEHANDLE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Stale handle specified
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
