'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH picl_get_node_by_path 3PICL "5 Feb 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "PICL Library Functions"
.SH NAME
picl_get_node_by_path \- get handle of node specified by PICL tree path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_node_by_path\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpiclpath\fR,
     \fBpicl_nodehdl_t *\fInodeh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B picl_get_node_by_path()
function copies the handle of the node in
the PICL tree specified by the path given in
.I piclpath
into the
location
.IR nodeh .
.sp
.LP
The syntax of a PICL tree path is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[<def_\fIpropname\fR>:]/[<\fIdef_propval\fR>[<\fImatch_cond\fR>].\|.\|. ]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where the <\fIdef_propname\fR> prefix is a shorthand notation to specify
the name of the property whose value is specified in <\fIdef_propval\fR>,
and the <\fImatch_cond\fR> expression specifies the matching criteria for
that node in the form of one or more pairs of property names and values such
as
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[@<address>][?<prop_name>[=<prop_val>].\|.\|. ]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where '@' is a shorthand notation to refer to the device address or a FRU's
location label and is followed by <\fIaddress\fR>, which gives the device
address or the location label.
.sp
.LP
For nodes under the
.B /platform
tree, the address value is matched with
the value of the property
.BR bus-addr ,
if it exists. If no \fBbus-addr\fR
property exists, the address value is matched with the value of the property
.BR UnitAddress .
To explicitly limit the comparison to
.B bus-addr
or
.B UnitAddress
property, use the '?' notation described below.
.sp
.LP
For nodes under the \fB/frutree\fR tree, the <\fIaddress\fR> value is
matched with the value of the
.B Label
property.
.sp
.LP
The expression following '?' specifies matching property name and value
pairs, where <\fIprop_name\fR> specifies the property name and
<\fIprop_val\fR> specifies the property value for properties not of type
.BR PICL_PTYPE_VOID .
The values for properties of type
.BR PICL_PTYPE_TABLE ,
.BR PICL_PTYPE_BYTEARRAY ,
and
.B PICL_PTYPE_REFERENCE
cannot be specified in the <\fImatch_cond\fR>
expression.
.sp
.LP
A
.B _class
property value of
.B picl
can be used to match nodes of
any
.B PICL
classes. The class
.B picl
is the base class of all the
classes in
.BR PICL .
.sp
.LP
All valid paths must begin at the root node denoted by '/'.
.sp
.LP
If no prefix is specified for the path, the prefix defaults to the
.B name
property.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise a non-negative integer
is returned to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
The value
.B PICL_NOTNODE
is returned if there is no node corresponding
to the specified path.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
General system failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_INVALIDARG
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Invalid argument
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PICL_NOTNODE
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Not a node
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR picl_get_propval_by_name (3PICL),
.BR attributes (5)
