'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmlgrep 1F "28 Mar 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
fmlgrep \- search a file for a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmlgrep\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     \fIlimited_regular_expression\fR [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B fmlgrep
searches
.I filename
for a pattern and prints all lines
that contain that pattern.
.B fmlgrep
uses limited regular expressions
(expressions that have string values that use a subset of the possible
alphanumeric and special characters) like those described on the
.BR regexp (5)
manual page to match the patterns. It uses a compact
non-deterministic algorithm.
.sp
.LP
Be careful when using
.B FMLI
special characters (for instance, \fB$,
`, ', "\fR) in \fIlimited_regular_expression\fR. It is safest to enclose the
entire
.I limited_regular_expression
in single quotes \fB\&' ...
\&'\fR.
.sp
.LP
If
.I filename
is not specified,
.B fmlgrep
assumes standard input.
Normally, each line matched is copied to standard output. The file name is
printed before each line matched if there is more than one input file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -b
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Precede each line by the block number on which it was found. This can be
useful in locating block numbers by context (first block is 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -c
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print only a count of the lines that contain the pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -i
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Ignore upper/lower case distinction during comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print only the names of files with matching lines, separated by new-lines.
Does not repeat the names of files when the pattern is found more than
once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Precede each line by its line number in the file (first line is 1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Suppress error messages about nonexistent or unreadable files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -v
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Print all lines except those that contain the pattern.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if the pattern is found (that is,
.BR TRUE )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if the pattern is not found (that is,
.BR FALSE )
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
if an invalid expression was used or
.I filename
is inaccessible
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR egrep (1),
.BR fgrep (1),
.BR fmlcut (1F),
.BR grep (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR regexp (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Lines are limited to
.B BUFSIZ
characters; longer lines are truncated.
.B BUFSIZ
is defined in
.BR /usr/include/stdio.h .
.sp
.LP
If there is a line with embedded nulls,
.B fmlgrep
will only match up to
the first null; if it matches, it will print the entire line.
