'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH indicator 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
indicator \- display application specific alarms and/or the "working"
indicator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBindicator\fR [\fB-b\fR [\fIn\fR]] [\fB-c\fR \fIcolumn\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-w\fR]
     [\fIstring\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B indicator
function displays application specific alarms or the
"working" indicator, or both, on the  \fBFMLI\fR banner line. The argument
.I string
is a string to be displayed on the banner line, and should
always be the last argument given. Note that
.I string
is not
automatically cleared from the banner line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -b n
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B -b
option rings the terminal bell
.I n
times, where
.I n
is
an integer from 1 to 10. The default value is 1. If the terminal has no
bell, the screen is flashed instead, if possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-c " column
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B -c
option defines the column of the banner line at which to start
the indicator string. The argument
.I column
must be an integer from
.B 0
to
.B DISPLAYW-1.
If the
.B -c
option is not used,
.I column
defaults to
.BR "0 ."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "-l " length
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B -l
option defines the maximum length of the string displayed. If
.I string
is longer than
.I length
characters, it will be truncated.
The argument
.I length
must be an integer from
.B 1
to
.BR DISPLAYW.
If the
.B -l
option is not used,
.I length
defaults to
.BR DISPLAYW.
Note that if
.I string
doesn't fit it will be truncated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B -o
option causes
.B indicator
to duplicate its output to
.I stdout
\fI\&.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The \fB-w\fR option turns on the "working" indicator.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample output of the
.B indicator
command.
.sp
.LP
When the value entered in a form field is invalid, the following use of
.B indicator
will ring the bell three times and display the word
.B WRONG
starting at column 1 of the banner line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBinvalidmsg=`indicator \fB-b\fR 3 \fB-c\fR 1 "WRONG"`
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To clear the indicator after telling the user the entry is wrong:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBinvalidmsg=`indicator \fB-b\fB 9 \fB-c\fB 1 "WRONG"; sleep 3;
        indicator \fB-c\fB 1 "     "`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example the value of
.B invalidmsg
(in this case the default
value
.BR "Input is not valid" ),
still appears on the
.B FMLI
message
line.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
