'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH message 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
message \- puts its arguments on FMLI message line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmessage\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-b\fR [\fInum\fR]] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fIstring\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmessage\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-b\fR [\fInum\fR]] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fIstring\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmessage\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-b\fR [\fInum\fR]] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fIstring\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B message
command puts
.I string
out on the FMLI message line. If
there is no string, the
.I stdin
input to
.B message
will be used. The
output of
.B message
has a duration (length of time it remains on the
message line). The default duration is "transient": it or one of two other
durations can be requested with the mutually-exclusive options below.
.sp
.LP
Messages displayed with
.B "message -p"
will replace (change the
value of) any message currently displayed or stored via use of the
.B permanentmsg
descriptor. Likewise,
.B "message -f"
will replace
any message currently displayed or stored via use of the
.B framemsg
descriptor. If more than one message in a frame definition file is specified
with the
.B -p
option, the last one specified will be the permanent
duration message.
.sp
.LP
The
.I string
argument should always be the last argument.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Explicitly defines a message to have transient duration. Transient messages
remain on the message line only until the user presses another key or a
.B CHECKWORLD
occurs. The descriptors \fBitemmsg , fieldmsg , invalidmsg , choicemsg ,\fR the default-if-not-defined value of
.B "oninterrupt ,"
and
FMLI generated error messages (that is, from syntax errors) also output
transient duration messages. Transient messages take precedence over both
frame messages and permanent messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Defines a message to have "frame" duration. Frame messages remain on the
message line as long as the frame in which they are defined is current. The
descriptor
.B framemsg
also outputs a frame duration message. Frame
messages take precedence over permanent messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Defines a message to have "permanent" duration. Permanent messages remain on
the message line for the length of the FMLI session, unless explicitly
replaced by another permanent message or temporarily superseded by a
transient message or frame message. A permanent message is not affected by
navigating away from, or by closing, the frame which generated the permanent
message. The descriptor
.B permanentmsg
also outputs a permanent duration
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI -b [num]
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Rings the terminal bell
.I num
times, where
.I num
is an integer from
1 to 10. The default value is 1. If the terminal has no bell, the screen will
flash
.I num
times instead, if possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -o
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Forces
.B message
to duplicate its message to
.I stdout
\fI\&.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -w
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Turns on the working indicator.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample output of
.B message
on the message line:
.sp
.LP
When a value entered in a field is invalid, ring the bell 3 times and then
display
.B "Invalid Entry: Try again!"
on the message line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBinvalidmsg=`message \fB-b\fB 3 "Invalid Entry: Try again!"`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display a message that tells the user what is being done:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBdone=`message EDITOR has been set in your environment` close\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display a message on the message line and
.I stdout
for each field in a
form (a pseudo-"field duration" message).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfieldmsg="`message -o -f "Enter a filename."`"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display a blank transient message (effect is to "remove" a permanent or
frame duration message).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBdone=`message  ""` nop\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sleep (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If
.B message
is coded more than once on a single line, it may appear
that only the right-most instance is interpreted and displayed. Use
.BR sleep (1)
between uses of
.B message
in this case, to display
multiple messages.
.sp
.LP
.B message -f
should not be used in a stand-alone backquoted expression
or with the
.B init
descriptor because the frame is not yet current when
these are evaluated.
.sp
.LP
In cases where \fB`message -f "\fIstring\fB"`\fR is part of a
stand-alone backquoted expression, the context for evaluation of the
expression is the previously current frame. The previously current frame can
be the frame that issued the
.B open
command for the frame containing the
backquoted expression, or it can be a frame given as an argument when
.B fmli
was invoked. That is, the previously current frame is the one
whose frame message will be modified.
.sp
.LP
Permanent duration messages are displayed when the user navigates to the
command line.
