'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pathconv 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
pathconv \- search FMLI criteria for filename
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpathconv\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fIalias\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpathconv\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-n\fInum\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fIstring\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pathconv
function converts an alias to its pathname. By default,
it takes the alias as a string from the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -f
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If
.B -f
is specified, the full path will be returned (this is the
default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If
.B -t
is specified,
.B pathconv
will truncate a pathname specified
in
.I string
in a format suitable for display as a frame title. This
format is a shortened version of the full pathname, created by deleting
components of the path from the middle of the string until it is under
.B DISPLAYW
\(em 6 characters in length, and then inserting ellipses (
\fB\&.\|.\|.\fR ) between the remaining pieces. Ellipses are also used to
show truncation at the ends of the strings if necessary, unless the \fB-l\fR
option is given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If
.B -l
is specified,
.B <
and
.B >
will be used instead of
ellipses ( \fB\&.\|.\|.\fR ) to indicate truncation at the ends of the
string generated by the
.B -t
option. Using
.B -l
allows display of
the longest possible string while still notifying users it has been
truncated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-n\fInum\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If
.B -n
is specified,
.I num
is the maximum length of the string (in
characters) generated by the
.B -t
option. The argument
.I num
can be
any integer from 1 to 255.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -valias
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
|\|\fIstring\fR If the \fB-v\fR option is used, then \fBalias\fR or
.I string
can be specified when
.B pathconv
is called. The argument
.B alias
must be an alias defined in the
.I alias_file
named when
.B fmli
was invoked. The argument
.I string
can only be used with the
.B -t
option and must be a pathname.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample that uses
.B pathconv
to construct the menu
title. It searches for
.B MYPATH
in the
.I alias_file
named when
.B fmli
command.
.sp
.LP
Here is a menu descriptor that uses
.B pathconv
to construct the menu
title. It searches for
.B MYPATH
in the
.I alias_file
named when
.B fmli
was invoked:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmenu=`pathconv \fB-v\fB MYPATH/ls`
   .
   .
   .\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where there is a line in \fIalias_file\fR that defines \fBMYPATH\fR
\&. For example,
.BR MYPATH=$HOME/bin:/usr/bin .

.sp
.LP
Here is a menu descriptor that takes
.B alias
from the standard input.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmenu=`echo MYPATH/ls | pathconv`
   .
   .
   .\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fmli (1),
.BR attributes (5)
