'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH regex 1F "12 Jul 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
regex \- match patterns against a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBregex\fR [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-v\fR "\fIstring\fR"] [\fIpattern\fR \fItemplate\fR] .\|.\|.
     \fIpattern\fR [\fItemplate\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B regex
command takes a string from the standard input, and a list
of
.I pattern
/
.I template
pairs, and runs
.B regex()
to compare
the string against each
.I pattern
until there is a match. When a match
occurs,
.B regex
writes the corresponding
.I template
to the standard
output and returns
.BR TRUE .
The last (or only)
.I pattern
does not
need a template. If that is the pattern that matches the string, the
function simply returns
.BR TRUE .
If no match is found, \fBregex\fR
returns
.BR FALSE .
.sp
.LP
The argument
.I pattern
is a regular expression of the form described in
.BR regex() .
In most cases,
.I pattern
should be enclosed in single
quotes to turn off special meanings of characters. Note that only the final
\fIpattern\fR in the list may lack a
.IR template .
.sp
.LP
The argument
.I template
may contain the strings
.B $m0
through
.BR $m9 ,
which will be expanded to the part of
.I pattern
enclosed in
\fB( .\|.\|. )$0\fR through \fB( .\|.\|. )$9\fR constructs (see examples
below). Note that if you use this feature, you must be sure to enclose
\fItemplate\fR in single quotes so that \fBFMLI\fR does not expand \fB$m0\fR
through
.B $m9
at parse time. This feature gives
.B regex
much of the
power of
.BR cut (1),
.BR paste (1),
and
.BR grep (1),
and some of the
capabilities of
.BR sed (1).
If there is no
.IR template ,
the default is
.BR $m0$m1$m2$m3$m4$m5$m6$m7$m8$m9 .
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Evaluates the corresponding template and writes the result to the standard
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-v\fR "\fIstring\fR"\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Uses
.I string
instead of the standard input to match against
patterns.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Cutting letters out of a string
.sp
.LP
To cut the 4th through 8th letters out of a string (this example will
output
.B strin
and return
.BR TRUE ):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`regex -v "my string is nice" '^.{3}(.{5})$0' '$m0'`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Validating input in a form
.sp
.LP
In a form, to validate input to field 5 as an integer:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBvalid=`regex -v "$F5" '^[0-9]+$'`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Translating an environment variable in a form
.sp
.LP
In a form, to translate an environment variable which contains one of the
numbers
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.BR 3 ,
.BR 4 ,
\fB5\fR to the letters
.BR a ,
.BR b ,
.BR c ,
.BR d ,
.BR e :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBvalue=`regex -v "$VAR1" 1 a 2 b 3 c 4 d 5 e '.*' 'Error'`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note the use of the pattern \fB\&'.*'\fR to mean "anything else".

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Using backquoted expressions
.sp
.LP
In the example below, all three lines constitute a single backquoted
expression. This expression, by itself, could be put in a menu definition
file. Since backquoted expressions are expanded as they are parsed, and
output from a backquoted expression (the
.B cat
command, in this example)
becomes part of the definition file being parsed, this expression would read
\fB/etc/passwd\fR and make a dynamic menu of all the login ids on the
system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`cat /etc/passwd | regex '^([^:]*)$0.*$' '
name=$m0
action=`message "$m0 is a user"`'`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
If none of the patterns match,
.B regex
returns
.BR FALSE ,
otherwise
.BR TRUE .
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Patterns and templates must often be enclosed in single quotes to turn off
the special meanings of characters. Especially if you use the \fB$m0\fR
through
.B $m9
variables in the template, since
.B FMLI
will expand
the variables (usually to "") before \fBregex\fR even sees them.
.sp
.LP
Single characters in character classes (inside \fB[\|]\fR) must be listed
before character ranges, otherwise they will not be recognized. For example,
\fB[a-zA-Z_/]\fR will not find underscores (\fB_\fR) or slashes (\fB/\fR),
but
.B [_/a-zA-Z]
will.
.sp
.LP
The regular expressions accepted by
.B regcmp
differ slightly from other
utilities (that is,
.BR sed ,
.BR grep ,
.BR awk ,
.BR ed ,
and so
forth).
.sp
.LP
\fBregex\fR with the \fB-e\fR option forces subsequent commands to be
ignored. In other words, if a backquoted statement appears as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`regex -e .\|.\|.; command1; command2`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fBcommand1\fR and \fBcommand2\fR would never be executed. However,
dividing the expression into two:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`regex -e .\|.\|.``command1; command2`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would yield the desired result.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR awk (1),
.BR cut (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR paste (1),
.BR sed (1),
.BR regcmp (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
