'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH reinit 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
reinit \- runs an initialization file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBreinit\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B reinit
command is used to change the values of descriptors
defined in the initialization file that was named when
.B fmli
was
invoked and/or define additional descriptors. FMLI will parse and evaluate
the descriptors in
.IR filename ,
and then continue running the current
application. The argument
.I filename
must be the name of a valid FMLI
initialization file.
.sp
.LP
The
.B reinit
command does not re-display the introductory frame or
change the layout of screen labels for function keys.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
