'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH set 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
set, unset \- set and unset local or global environment variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]] .\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]] .\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-f\fIfile\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]].\|.\|. .\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunset\fR \fB-l\fR \fIvariable\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunset\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR \fIvariable\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B set
command sets
.I variable
in the environment, or adds
\fIvariable\fB=\fIvalue\fR to \fBfile\fR. If \fIvariable\fR is not
equated it to a value,
.B set
expects the value to be on
.IR stdin .
The
.B unset
command removes
.IR variable .
Note that the FMLI predefined,
read-only variables (such as
.BR ARG1 ),
may not be set or unset.
.sp
.LP
Note that at least one of the above options must be used for each variable
being set or unset. If you set a variable with the \fB-f\fIfilename\fR
option, you must thereafter include
.I filename
in references to that
variable. For example, \fB${(file\fB)\fIVARIABLE\fB}\fR.
.sp
.LP
FMLI inherits the UNIX environment when invoked.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -l
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Sets or unsets the specified variable in the local environment. Variables
set with
.B -l
will not be inherited by processes invoked from FMLI.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -e
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Sets the specified variable in the UNIX environment. Variables set with
.B -e
will be inherited by any processes started from FMLI. Note that
these variables cannot be
.BR unset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB-f\fBfile\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Sets or unsets the specified variable in the global environment. The
argument
.B file
is the name, or pathname, of a file containing lines of
the form \fIvariable\fB=\fIvalue\fR. \fBfile\fR will be created if it
does not already exist. Note that no space intervenes between
.B -f
and
.BR file .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample output of
.B set
command.
.sp
.LP
Storing a selection made in a menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBname=Selection 2
action=`set \fB-l\fB SELECTION=2`close\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Variables set to be available to the UNIX environment (those set using the
.B -e
option) can only be set for the current fmli process and the
processes it calls.
.sp
.LP
When using the \fB-f\fR option, unless \fBfile\fR is unique to the process,
other users of FMLI on the same machine will be able to expand these
variables, depending on the read/write permissions on
.BR file .
.sp
.LP
A variable set in one frame may be referenced or unset in any other frame.
This includes local variables.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR env (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
