'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH shell 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
shell \- run a command using shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBshell\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B shell
function concatenate its arguments, separating each by a
space, and passes this string to the shell (\fB$SHELL\fR if set, otherwise
.BR /usr/bin/sh ).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample output of
.B shell
command.
.sp
.LP
Since the Form and Menu Language does not directly support background
processing, the
.B shell
function can be used instead.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`shell "build prog > /dev/null &"`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you want the user to continue to be able to interact with the
application while the background job is running, the output of an executable
run by
.B shell
in the background must be redirected: to a file if you
want to save the output, or to
.B /dev/null
if you don't want to save it
(or if there is no output), otherwise your application may appear to be hung
until the background job finishes processing.

.sp
.LP
.B shell
can also be used to execute a command that has the same name as
an FMLI built-in function.

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The arguments to
.B shell
will be concatenate using spaces, which may or
may not do what is expected. The variables set in local environments will
not be expanded by the shell because "local" means "local to the current
process."
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
