'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH a64l 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
a64l, l64a \- convert between long integer and base-64 ASCII string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBa64l\fR(\fBconst char *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBl64a\fR(\fBlong\fR \fIl\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions maintain numbers stored in base-64
.B ASCII
characters
that define a notation by which long integers can be represented by up to
six characters. Each character represents a "digit" in a radix-64
notation.
.sp
.LP
The characters used to represent "digits" are as follows:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.76i) |lw(2.74i)
lw(2.76i) |lw(2.74i)
.
CharacterDigit
_
.B
\&.0
\fB/\fR\fB1\fR
\fB0-9\fR\fB2-11\fR
.B
A-Z12-37
.B
a-z38-63
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B a64l()
function takes a pointer to a null-terminated base-64
representation and returns a corresponding
.B long
value.  If the string
pointed to by
.I s
contains more than six characters,
.B a64l()
uses
the first six.
.sp
.LP
The
.B a64l()
function scans the character string from left to right
with the least significant digit on the left, decoding each character as a
6-bit radix-64 number.
.sp
.LP
The
.B l64a()
function takes a
.B long
argument and returns a pointer
to the corresponding base-64 representation. If the argument is 0,
.B l64a()
returns a pointer to a null string.
.sp
.LP
The value returned by
.B l64a()
is a pointer into a static buffer, the
contents of which are overwritten by each call.  In the case of
multithreaded applications, the return value is a pointer to thread specific
data.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
