'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH abs 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
abs, labs, llabs \- return absolute value of integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBabs\fR(\fBint\fR \fIval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong\fR \fBlabs\fR(\fBlong\fR \fIlval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllabs\fR(\fBlong long\fR \fIllval\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B abs()
function returns the absolute value of its
.BR int
operand.
.sp
.LP
The
.B labs()
function returns the absolute value of its
.BR long
operand.
.sp
.LP
The
.B llabs()
function returns the absolute value of its
.B "long long"
operand.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
In 2's-complement representation, the absolute value of the largest
magnitude negative integral value is undefined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
