'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH aio_return 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
aio_return \- retrieve return status of an asynchronous I/O operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <aio.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBaio_return\fR(\fBstruct aiocb *\fIaiocbp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B aio_return()
function returns the return status associated with
the
.B aiocb
structure referenced by the
.I aiocbp
argument. The
return status for an asynchronous I/O operation is the value that would be
returned by the corresponding
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
or
\fBfsync\fR(3C) function call. If the error status for the operation is
equal to
.BR EINPROGRESS ,
then the return status for the operation is
undefined. The
.B aio_return()
function may be called exactly once to
retrieve the return status of a given asynchronous operation; thereafter, if
the same
.B aiocb
structure is used in a call to
.B aio_return()
or
.BR aio_error (3C),
.RB "an error may be returned. When the" " aiocb"
structure referred to by
.I aiocbp
is used to submit another asynchronous
operation, then
.B aio_return()
may be successfully used to retrieve the
return status of that operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the asynchronous I/O operation has completed, then the return status, as
described for
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
and \fBfsync\fR(3C), is
returned. If the asynchronous I/O operation has not yet completed, the
results of
.B aio_return()
are undefined.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B aio_return()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I aiocbp
argument does not refer to an asynchronous operation whose
return status has not yet been retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B aio_return()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B aio_return()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit
file offsets.  See \fBlf64\fR(5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR exit (2),
\fBfork\fR(2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
\fBfsync\fR(3C),
.BR aio.h (3HEAD),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR aio_cancel (3C),
\fBaio_fsync\fR(3C), \fBaio_read\fR(3C), \fBlio_listio\fR(3C),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBlf64\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set \fBerrno\fR to \fBENOSYS\fR.
