'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH aiocancel 3C "5 Feb 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
aiocancel \- cancel an asynchronous operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/asynch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBaiocancel\fR(\fBaio_result_t *\fIresultp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBaiocancel()\fR cancels the asynchronous operation associated with the
result buffer pointed to by
.IR resultp .
It may not be possible to
immediately cancel an operation which is in progress and in this case,
\fBaiocancel()\fR will not wait to cancel it.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B aiocancel()
returns 
.B 0
and the
requested operation is cancelled.  The application will not receive the
\fBSIGIO\fR completion signal for an asynchronous operation that is
successfully cancelled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B aiocancel()
returns
.BR 0 .
Upon
failure,
.B aiocancel()
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBaiocancel()\fR will fail if any of the following are true:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The parameter
.I resultp
does not correspond to any outstanding
asynchronous operation, although there is at least one currently
outstanding.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
\fIresultp\fR points to an address outside the address space of the
requesting process.  See \fBNOTES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There are not any outstanding requests to cancel.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR aioread (3C),
.BR aiowait (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Passing an illegal address as
.I resultp
will result in setting
\fBerrno\fR to \fBEFAULT\fR \fIonly\fR if it is detected by the application
process.
