'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH assert 3C "30 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
assert \- verify program assertion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <assert.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBassert\fR(\fBint\fR \fIexpression\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B assert()
macro inserts diagnostics into applications. When
executed, if
.I expression
is
.B FALSE
(zero),
.B assert()
prints
the error message
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Assertion failed: \fIexpression\fR, file \fIxyz\fR, line \fInnn\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
on the standard error output and aborts. In the error message,
.I xyz
is
the name of the source file and
.I nnn
the source line number of the
.B assert()
statement. These are respectively the values of the
preprocessor macros
.B __FILE__
and
.BR __LINE__ .
.sp
.LP
Since
.B assert()
is implemented as a macro, the
.I expression
may
not contain any string literals.
.sp
.LP
Compiling with the preprocessor option
.B -DNDEBUG
or with the
preprocessor control statement
.B "#define NDEBUG"
ahead of the
.B #include
.RB < assert.h >
statement, will stop assertions from being
compiled into the program.
.sp
.LP
Messages printed from this function are in the native language specified by
the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale category. See
.BR setlocale (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR abort (3C),
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
