'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH atexit 3C "25 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
atexit \- register a function to run at process termination or object
unloading
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBatexit\fR(\fBvoid (*\fIfunc\fR)(void));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B atexit()
function registers the function pointed to by \fIfunc\fR
to be called without arguments on normal termination of the program or when
the object defining the function is unloaded.
.sp
.LP
Normal termination occurs by either a call to the \fBexit\fR(3C) function
or a return from
.BR main() .
Object unloading occurs when a call to
.BR dlclose (3C)
results in the object becoming unreferenced.
.sp
.LP
The number of functions that may be registered with
.B atexit()
is
limited only by available memory (refer to the
.B _SC_ATEXIT_MAX
argument
of
.BR sysconf (3C)).
.sp
.LP
After a successful call to any of the
.BR exec (2)
functions, any
functions previously registered by
.B atexit()
are no longer
registered.
.sp
.LP
On process exit, functions are called in the reverse order of their
registration. On object unloading, any functions belonging to an unloadable
object are called in the reverse order of their registration.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B atexit()
function returns 0.
Otherwise, it returns a non-zero value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B atexit()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The functions registered by a call to
.B atexit()
must return to ensure
that all registered functions are called.
.sp
.LP
There is no way for an application to tell how many functions have already
been registered with
.BR atexit() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR dlclose (3C),
.BR exit (3C),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
