'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH atomic_bits 3C "13 May 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
atomic_bits, atomic_set_long_excl, atomic_clear_long_excl \- atomic set and
clear bit operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <atomic.h>

\fBint\fR \fBatomic_set_long_excl\fR(\fBvolatile ulong_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIbit\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBatomic_clear_long_excl\fR(\fBvolatile ulong_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIbit\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B atomic_set_long_excl()
and
.BR atomic_clear_long_excl()
functions perform an exclusive atomic bit set or clear operation on
.IR target .
The value of
.I bit
specifies the number of the bit to be
modified within target. Bits are numbered from zero to one less than the
maximum number of bits in a
.BR long .
If the value of bit falls outside of
this range, the result of the operation is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B atomic_set_long_excl()
and
.BR atomic_clear_long_excl()
functions return 0 if
.I bit
was successfully set or cleared. They return
-1 if
.I bit
was already set or cleared.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR atomic_add (3C),
.BR atomic_and (3C),
.BR atomic_cas (3C),
.BR atomic_dec (3C),
.BR atomic_inc (3C),
.BR atomic_or (3C),
.BR atomic_swap (3C),
.BR membar_ops (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR atomic_ops (9F)
