'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH atomic_cas 3C "13 May 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
atomic_cas, atomic_cas_8, atomic_cas_uchar, atomic_cas_16,
atomic_cas_ushort, atomic_cas_32, atomic_cas_uint, atomic_cas_ulong,
atomic_cas_64, atomic_cas_ptr \- atomic compare and swap operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <atomic.h>

\fBuint8_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_8\fR(\fBvolatile uint8_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint8_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuint8_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuchar_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_uchar\fR(\fBvolatile uchar_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuchar_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuchar_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint16_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_16\fR(\fBvolatile uint16_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint16_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuint16_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBushort_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_ushort\fR(\fBvolatile ushort_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBushort_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBushort_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint32_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_32\fR(\fBvolatile uint32_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_uint\fR(\fBvolatile uint_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBulong_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_ulong\fR(\fBvolatile ulong_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBulong_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBulong_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint64_t\fR \fBatomic_cas_64\fR(\fBvolatile uint64_t *\fItarget\fR, \fBuint64_t\fR \fIcmp\fR,
     \fBuint64_t\fR \fInewval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBatomic_cas_ptr\fR(\fBvolatile void *\fItarget\fR, \fBvoid *\fIcmp\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fInewval\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions enable a compare and swap operation to occur atomically. The
value stored in
.I target
is compared with
.IR cmp .
If these values are
equal, the value stored in
.I target
is replaced with
.IR newval .
The
old value stored in
.I target
is returned by the function whether or not
the replacement occurred.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return the old value of *\fItarget\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR atomic_add (3C),
.BR atomic_and (3C),
.BR atomic_bits (3C),
.BR atomic_dec (3C),
.BR atomic_inc (3C),
.BR atomic_or (3C),
.BR atomic_swap (3C),
.BR membar_ops (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR atomic_ops (9F)
