'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH attropen 3C "1 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
attropen \- open a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBattropen\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR, \fBconst char *\fIattrpath\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoflag\fR,
     \fB/* mode_t\fR \fImode\fR */.\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B attropen()
function is similar to the
.BR open (2)
function except
that it takes a second path argument,
.IR attrpath ,
that identifies an
extended attribute file associated with the first
.I path
argument. This
function returns a file descriptor for the extended attribute rather than the
file named by the initial argument.
.sp
.LP
The
.B O_XATTR
flag is set by default for
.B attropen()
and the
.I attrpath
argument is always interpreted as a reference to an extended
attribute. Extended attributes must be referenced with a relative path;
providing an absolute path results in a normal file reference.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR open (2).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR open (2).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR open (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR fsattr (5)
