'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bsd_signal 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
bsd_signal \- simplified signal facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBvoid\fR (\fB*bsd_signal(int\fR \fIsig\fR, \fBvoid\fR (*\fIfunc\fR)(\fBint\fR)))(\fBint\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bsd_signal()
function provides a partially compatible interface
for programs written to historical system interfaces (see
.B USAGE
below).
.sp
.LP
The function call \fBbsd_signal\fR(\fIsig\fR, \fIfunc\fR) has an effect as
if implemented as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void (*bsd_signal(int sig, void (*func)\|(int)))\|(int)
{
     struct sigaction act, oact;

     act.sa_handler = \fIfunc\fR;
     act.sa_flags = SA_RESTART;
     sigemptyset(&act.sa_mask);
     sigaddset(&act.sa_mask, \fIsig\fR);
     if (sigaction(\fIsig\fR, &act, &oact) == \(mi1)
          return(\fBSIG_ERR\fR);
     return(oact.sa_handler);
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The handler function should be declared:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void handler(int \fIsig\fR);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.I sig
is the signal number.  The behavior is undefined if
.I func
is a function that takes more than one argument, or an argument
of a different type.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B bsd_signal()
returns the previous action
for
.IR sig .
Otherwise,
.B SIG_ERR
is returned and
.B errno
is set
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR sigaction (2).
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
This function is a direct replacement for the
.BR "BSD signal" (3UCB)
function for simple applications that are installing a single-argument
signal handler function.  If a
.B BSD
signal handler function is being
installed that expects more than one argument, the application has to be
modified to use
.BR sigaction (2).
The
.B bsd_signal()
function differs
from
.BR signal (3UCB)
in that the \fBSA_RESTART\fR flag is set and the
.B SA_RESETHAND
will be clear when
.B bsd_signal()
is used.  The state
of these flags is not specified for
.BR signal (3UCB).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigaddset (3C),
.BR sigemptyset (3C),
.BR signal (3UCB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
