'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH catgets 3C "22 Mar 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
catgets \- read a program message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <nl_types.h>

\fBchar *\fBcatgets\fR(\fBnl_catd\fR \fIcatd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIset_num\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsg_num\fR, \fBconst char *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B catgets()
function attempts to read message
.IR msg_num ,
in set
.IR set_num ,
from the message catalog identified by
.IR catd .
The
.I catd
argument is a catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call to
.BR catopen() .
The
.I s
argument points to a default message string
which will be returned by
.B catgets()
if the identified message catalog
is not currently available.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the identified message is retrieved successfully,
.B catgets()
returns a pointer to an internal buffer area containing the  null terminated
message string. If the call is unsuccessful for any reason,
.B catgets()
returns a pointer to
.I s
and
.B errno
may be set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B catgets()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I catd
argument is not a valid message catalogue descriptor open
for reading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADMSG
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The number of
.B %n
specifiers that appear in the message string
specified by
.I s
does not match the number of
.B %n
specifiers that
appear in the message identified by
.I set_id
and
.I msg_id
in the
specified message catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no
data was transferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The message catalog identified by
.I catd
is corrupted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMSG
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The message identified by
.I set_id
and
.I msg_id
is not in the
message catalog.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B catgets()
function can be used safely in multithreaded
applications as long as
.BR setlocale "(3C) is not being called to change"
the locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gencat (1),
.BR catclose (3C),
.BR catopen (3C),
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.sp
.LP
.I International Language Environments Guide
