'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH clock_settime 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
clock_settime, clock_gettime, clock_getres \- high-resolution clock
operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBclock_settime\fR(\fBclockid_t\fR \fIclock_id\fR, \fBconst struct timespec *\fItp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBclock_gettime\fR(\fBclockid_t\fR \fIclock_id\fR, \fBstruct timespec *\fItp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBclock_getres\fR(\fBclockid_t\fR \fIclock_id\fR, \fBstruct timespec *\fIres\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B clock_settime()
function sets the specified clock,
.IR clock_id ,
to the value specified by
.IR tp .
Time values that are
between two consecutive non-negative integer multiples of the resolution of
the specified clock are truncated down to the smaller multiple of the
resolution.
.sp
.LP
The
.B clock_gettime()
function returns the current value
.I tp
for
the specified clock,
.IR clock_id .
.sp
.LP
The resolution of any clock can be obtained by calling
.BR clock_getres() .
Clock resolutions are system-dependent and cannot be
set by a process. If the argument
.I res
is not
.IR NULL ,
the
resolution of the specified clock is stored in the location pointed to by
.IR res .
If
.I res
is
.IR NULL ,
the clock resolution is not returned.
If the time argument of
.B clock_settime()
is not a multiple of
.IR res ,
then the value is truncated to a multiple of
.IR res .
.sp
.LP
A clock may be systemwide (that is, visible to all processes) or
per-process (measuring time that is meaningful only within a process).
.sp
.LP
A
.I clock_id
of
.B CLOCK_REALTIME
is defined in
.RB < time.h >.
This
clock represents the realtime clock for the system. For this clock, the
values returned by
.B clock_gettime()
and specified by
.B clock_settime()
represent the amount of time (in seconds and
nanoseconds) since the Epoch. Additional clocks may also be supported. The
interpretation of time values for these clocks is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
A
.I clock_id
of
.B CLOCK_HIGHRES
represents the non-adjustable,
high-resolution clock for the system. For this clock, the value returned by
.BR clock_gettime (3C)
represents the amount of time (in seconds and
nanoseconds) since some arbitrary time in the past; it is not correlated in
any way to the time of day, and thus is not subject to resetting or drifting
by way of
.BR adjtime (2),
.BR ntp_adjtime (2),
.BR settimeofday (3C),
or
.BR clock_settime() .
The time source for this clock is the same as that
for
.BR gethrtime (3C).
.sp
.LP
Additional clocks may also be supported. The interpretation of time values
for these clocks is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR clock_settime() ,
.B clock_gettime()
and
.BR clock_getres()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I clock_id
argument does not specify a known clock.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The functions
.BR clock_settime() ,
.BR clock_gettime() ,
and
.B clock_getres()
are not supported by this implementation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B clock_settime()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I tp
argument to
.B clock_settime()
is outside the range for the
given clock ID; or the
.I tp
argument specified a nanosecond value less
than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B clock_settime()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The requesting process does not have the appropriate privilege to set the
specified clock.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-Level\fBclock_gettime()\fR is Async-Signal-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR time (2),
.BR ctime (3C),
.BR gethrtime (3C),
.BR time.h (3HEAD),
.BR timer_gettime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
