'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH clock 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
clock \- report CPU time used
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>

\fBclock_t\fR \fBclock\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B clock()
function returns the amount of CPU time (in microseconds)
used since the first call to
.B clock()
in the calling process. The time
reported is the sum of the user and system times of the calling process and
its terminated child processes for which it has executed the
.BR wait (3C)
function, the
.BR pclose (3C)
function, or the
.BR system (3C)
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Dividing the value returned by
.B clock()
by the constant
.BR CLOCKS_PER_SEC ,
defined in the
.RB < time.h >
header, will give the
time in seconds.  If the process time used is not available or cannot be
represented, clock returns the value
.BR "(clock_t) \(mi1" .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The value returned by
.B clock()
is defined in microseconds for
compatibility with systems that have CPU clocks with much higher resolution.
Because of this, the value returned will wrap around after accumulating only
2147 seconds of CPU time (about 36 minutes).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR times (2),
.BR popen (3C),
.BR system (3C),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
