'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crypt 3C "28 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
crypt \- string encoding function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <crypt.h>

\fBchar *\fBcrypt\fR(\fBconst char *\fIkey\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsalt\fR);
.fi

.SS "Standard conforming"
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBchar *\fBcrypt\fR(\fBconst char *\fIkey\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsalt\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt()
function encodes strings suitable for secure storage as
passwords. It generates the password hash given the
.I key
and
.IR salt .
.sp
.LP
The
.I key
argument is the plain text password to be encrypted.
.sp
.LP
If the first character of
.I
salt
is "$",
.B crypt()
uses
.BR crypt.conf (4)
to determine which shared module to load for the
encryption algorithm.  The algorithm name
.B crypt()
uses to search in
.B
crypt.conf \c
is the string between the first and second "$", or between
the first "$" and first "," if a "," comes before the second "$".
.sp
.LP
If the first character of
.I
salt
is not "$", the algorithm described on
.BR crypt_unix (5)
is used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B crypt()
returns a pointer to the encoded
string. Otherwise it returns a null pointer and sets
.B errno
to indicate
the error.
.sp
.LP
The return value points to static data that is overwritten by each call.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An entry in
.B crypt.conf
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELIBACC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The required shared library was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There is insufficient memory to generate the hash.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The functionality is not supported on this system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The values returned by this function might not be portable among
standard-conforming systems. See
.BR standards (5).
.sp
.LP
Applications should not use
.B crypt()
to store or verify user passwords
but should use the functions described on
.BR pam "(3PAM) instead."
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt_genhash_impl (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C),
.BR getpassphrase (3C),
.BR pam (3PAM),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR policy.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR crypt_unix (5),
.BR standards (5)
