'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crypt_gensalt_impl 3C "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
crypt_gensalt_impl \- generate salt for password encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <crypt.h>

\fBchar *\fBcrypt_gensalt_impl\fR(\fBchar *\fIgsbuffer\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIgsbufflen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIoldsalt\fR, \fBconst struct passwd *\fIuserinfo\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fIparams\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_gensalt_impl()
function is called by
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C)
to generate the salt for password encryption.
.sp
.LP
The
.I gsbuffer
argument is a pointer to an MT-safe buffer of size
.IR gsbufflen .
.sp
.LP
The
.I oldsalt
and
.I userinfo
arguments are passed unchanged from
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C).
.sp
.LP
The
.I params
argument is an
.IR argv -like
null terminated vector of
type
.BR "char *" .
The first element of
.I params
represents the
mechanism token name from
.BR crypt.conf (4).
The remaining elements of
.I
params \c
represent strings of the form <\fBparameter\fR>[=<\fBvalue\fR>]
to allow passing in additional information from the
.B crypt.conf
entry,
such as specifying rounds information "\fBrounds=4096\fR".
.sp
.LP
The value returned by
.B crypt_gensalt_impl()
points to a
thread-specific buffer to be freed by the caller of
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C)
after calling
.BR crypt (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B crypt_gensalt_impl()
returns a pointer to
the new salt. Otherwise a null pointer is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_gensalt_impl()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The configuration file
.B crypt.conf
contains an invalid entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELIBACC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The required crypt shared library was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There is insufficient memory to perform hashing.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR crypt_genhash_impl (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C),
.BR getpassphrase (3C),
.BR crypt.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
