'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crypt_genhash_impl 3C "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
crypt_genhash_impl \- generate encrypted password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <crypt.h>

\fBchar *\fBcrypt_genhash_impl\fR(\fBchar *\fIctbuffer\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIctbufflen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIplaintext\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsalt\fR, \fBconst char **\fIparams\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_genhash_impl()
function is called by
.BR crypt "(3C) to"
generate the encrypted password
.IR plaintext .
.sp
.LP
The
.I ctbuffer
argument is a pointer to an MT-safe buffer of
.I ctbufflen
size that is used to return the result.
.sp
.LP
The
.I salt
argument is the salt used in encoding.
.sp
.LP
The
.I params
argument is an
.IR argv -like
null-terminated vector of
type
.BR "char *" .
The first element of
.I params
represents the
mechanism token name from
.BR crypt.conf (4).
The remaining elements of
.I
params \c
represent strings of the form <\fBparameter\fR>[=<\fBvalue\fR>]
to allow passing in additional information from the
.B crypt.conf
entry,
such as specifing rounds information "\fBrounds=4096\fR".
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_genhash_impl()
function must not
.BR free (3C)
.I ctbufflen
on error.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B crypt_genhash_impl()
returns a pointer to
the encoded version of
.IR plaintext .
Otherwise a null pointer is returned
and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B crypt_genhash_impl()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The configuration file
.B crypt.conf
contains an invalid entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELIBACC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The required shared library was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There is insufficient memory to perform hashing.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C),
.BR free (3C),
.BR getpassphrase (3C),
.BR crypt.conf (4),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5)
