'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ctype 3C "28 Jan 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ctype, isalpha, isalnum, isascii, isblank, iscntrl, isdigit, islower,
isprint, isspace, isupper, ispunct, isgraph, isxdigit \- character
handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ctype.h>

\fBint\fR \fBisalpha\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisalnum\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisascii\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisblank\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBiscntrl\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisdigit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisgraph\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBislower\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisprint\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBispunct\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisspace\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisupper\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisxdigit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These macros classify character-coded integer values. Each is a predicate
returning non-zero for true,
.B 0
for false. The behavior of these
macros, except
.BR isascii() ,
is affected by the current locale (see
.BR setlocale (3C)).
To modify the behavior, change the \fBLC_TYPE\fR
category in
.BR setlocale() ,
that is,
.BR setlocale(LC_CTYPE ,
\fInewlocale\fR). In the "C" locale, or in a locale where character type
information is not defined, characters are classified according to the rules
of the
.B US-ASCII
7-bit coded character set.
.sp
.LP
The
.B isascii()
macro is defined on all integer values. The rest are
defined only where the argument is an
.BR int ,
the value of which is
representable as an
.BR "unsigned char" ,
or
.BR EOF ,
which is defined by
the <\fBstdio.h\fR> header and represents end-of-file.
.sp
.LP
Functions exist for all the macros defined below. To get the function form,
the macro name must be undefined (for example,
.BR "#undef isdigit" ).
.sp
.LP
For macros described with \fBDefault\fR and \fBStandard conforming\fR
versions, standard-conforming behavior is provided for standard-conforming
applications (see
.BR standards (5))
and for applications that define
.B __XPG4_CHAR_CLASS__
before including <\fBctype.h\fR>.
.SS "Default"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isalpha()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.B isupper()
or
.B islower()
is
true.
.RE

.SS "Standard conforming"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isalpha()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.B isupper()
or
.B islower()
is
true, or any character that is one of the current locale-defined set of
characters for which none of
.BR iscntrl() ,
.BR isdigit() ,
\fBispunct()\fR, or \fBisspace()\fR is true. In "C" locale, \fBisalpha()\fR
returns true only for the characters for which
.B isupper()
or
.B islower()
is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isalnum()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.B isalpha()
or
.B isdigit()
is
true (letter or digit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isascii()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any ASCII character, code between
.B 0
and
.BR 0177
inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isblank()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests whether
.I c
is a character of class blank in the current locale.
This macro/function is not available to applications conforming to standards
prior to SUSv3. See
.BR standards (5)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B iscntrl()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any ``control character'' as defined by the character set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isdigit()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any decimal-digit character.
.RE

.SS "Default"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isgraph()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.BR ispunct() ,
.BR isupper() ,
.BR islower() ,
and
.B isdigit()
is true.
.RE

.SS "Standard conforming"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isgraph()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.B isalnum()
and
.B ispunct()
are
true, or any character in the current locale-defined "graph" class which is
neither a space ("\|") nor a character for which \fBiscntrl()\fR is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B islower()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character that is a lower-case letter or is one of the
current locale-defined set of characters for which none of
.BR iscntrl() ,
.BR isdigit() ,
.BR ispunct() ,
.BR isspace() ,
or
.B isupper()
is
true. In the "C" locale, \fBislower()\fR returns true only for the
characters defined as lower-case
.B ASCII
characters.
.RE

.SS "Default"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isprint()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.BR ispunct() ,
.BR isupper() ,
\fBislower()\fR, \fBisdigit()\fR, and the space character ("\|") is true.
.RE

.SS "Standard conforming"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isprint()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character for which
.B iscntrl()
is false, and
.BR isalnum() ,
.BR isgraph() ,
.BR ispunct() ,
the space character
("\|"), and the characters in the current locale-defined "print" class are
true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ispunct()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any printing character which is neither a space ("\|") nor a
character for which
.B isalnum()
or
.B iscntrl()
is true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isspace()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any space, tab, carriage-return, newline, vertical-tab or
form-feed (standard white-space characters) or for one of the current
locale-defined set of characters for which
.B isalnum()
is false.  In the
"C" locale, \fBisspace()\fR returns true only for the standard white-space
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isupper()
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Tests for any character that is an upper-case letter or is one of the
current locale-defined set of characters for which none of
.BR iscntrl() ,
.BR isdigit() ,
.BR ispunct() ,
.BR isspace() ,
or
.B islower()
is
true. In the "C" locale, \fBisupper()\fR returns true only for the
characters defined as upper-case
.B ASCII
characters.
.RE

.SS "Default"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isxdigit()
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Tests for any hexadecimal-digit character (\fB[0\(mi9]\fR,
.BR [A\(miF] ,
or
.BR [a\(mif] ).
.RE

.SS "Standard conforming"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B isxdigit()
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Tests for any hexadecimal-digit character (\fB[0\(mi9]\fR,
.BR [A\(miF] ,
or \fB[a\(mif]\fR or the current locale-defined sets of characters
representing the hexadecimal digits
.B 10
to
.B 15
inclusive). In the
"C" locale, only
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.fi
.in -2

are included.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the argument to any of the character handling macros is not in the
domain of the function, the result is undefined. Otherwise, the macro or
function returns non-zero if the classification is
.B TRUE
and
.B 0
if
the classification is
.BR FALSE .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These macros or functions can be used safely in multithreaded applications,
as long as
.BR setlocale "(3C) is not being called to change the locale."
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
CSIEnabled
Interface StabilityStandard
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR stdio (3C),
.BR ascii (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
