'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cuserid 3C "30 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
cuserid \- get character login name of the user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBchar *\fBcuserid\fR(\fBchar *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cuserid()
function generates a character-string representation of
the login name under which the owner of the current process is logged in. If
.I s
is a null pointer, this representation is generated in an internal
static area whose address is returned. Otherwise,
.I s
is assumed to
point to an array of at least
.B L_cuserid
characters; the representation
is left in this array. The constant
.B L_cuserid
is defined in the
.RB < stdio.h >
header.
.sp
.LP
In multithreaded applications, the caller must always supply an array
.I s
for the return value.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the login name cannot be found,
.B cuserid()
returns a null pointer.
If
.I s
is not a null pointer, the null character \fB`\e0'\fR will be
placed at
.IR s [\fB0\fR].
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getlogin (3C),
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
