'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions of this manual page are derived from documentation obtained from linuxmanpages.com
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dirfd 3C "24 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dirfd \- get directory stream file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <dirent.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdirfd\fR(\fBDIR *\fIdir\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dirfd()
function returns the file descriptor associated with the
directory stream
.IR dir .
.sp
.LP
This file descriptor is the one used internally by the directory stream
operations. See
.BR opendir (3C),
.BR closedir (3C),
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR rewinddir (3C),
.BR seekdir (3C),
.BR telldir (3C).
The file
descriptor is automatically closed when
.B closedir()
is called for the
directory stream
.I dir
or when one of the
.B exec
functions is
called. See
.BR exec (2).
.sp
.LP
The file descriptor can safely be used only by functions that do not depend
on or alter the file position, such as
.BR fstat (2)
and
.BR fchdir (2).
Closing the file descriptor with
.BR close (2)
or modifying the file
position by means other than the directory stream operations listed above
causes undefined behavior to occur when one of the directory stream
operations is subsequently called with the directory stream
.IR dir .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B dirfd()
function returns an open file
descriptor for the directory associated with the directory stream
.IR dir .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
There are no defined error returns.  Passing an invalid directory stream as
an argument to the
.B dirfd()
function results in undefined behavior.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B dirfd()
function is intended to be used to obtain a file
descriptor for use with the
.B fchdir()
function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fchdir (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR closedir (3C),
.BR opendir (3C),
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR rewinddir (3C),
.BR seekdir (3C),
.BR telldir (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
