'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dlerror 3C "1 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlerror \- get diagnostic information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <dlfcn.h>

\fBchar *\fBdlerror\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlerror()
function returns a null-terminated character string
that describes the last error that occurred during dynamic linking
processing. The returned string contains no trailing newline. If no dynamic
linking errors have occurred since the last invocation of
.BR dlerror() ,
.B dlerror()
returns
.IR NULL .
Thus, invoking
.B dlerror()
a second
time, immediately following a prior invocation, results in
.I NULL
being
returned.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B dlerror()
function is one of a family of functions that give the
user direct access to the dynamic linking facilities. These facilities are
available to dynamically-linked processes only. See
.IR "Linker and Libraries Guide" .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld (1),
.BR dladdr (3C),
.BR dlclose (3C),
.BR dldump (3C),
.BR dlopen (3C),
.BR dlsym (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The messages returned by
.B dlerror()
can reside in a static buffer
that is overwritten on each call to
.BR dlerror() .
Application code should
not write to this buffer. Programs wanting to preserve an error message
should make their own copies of that message.
