'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH door_ucred 3C "22 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
door_ucred \- return credential information associated with the client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_ucred\fR(\fBucred_t **\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_ucred()
function returns credential information associated
with the client, if any, of the current door invocation.
.sp
.LP
When successful,
.B door_ucred()
writes a pointer to a user credential
to the location pointed to by
.I info
if that location was previously
.IR NULL .
If that location was non-null,
.B door_ucred()
assumes that
.I info
points to a previously allocated
.B ucred_t
which is then
reused. The location pointed to by
.I info
can be used multiple times
before being freed. The value returned in
.I info
must be freed using
.BR ucred_free (3C).
.sp
.LP
The resulting user credential includes information about the effective user
and group ID, the real user and group ID, all privilege sets and the calling
PID.
.sp
.LP
The credential information associated with the client refers to the
information from the immediate caller, not necessarily from the first thread
in a chain of door calls.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B door_ucred()
returns 0. Otherwise, -1 is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error, in which case the
memory location pointed to by the
.I info
argument is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_ucred()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The location pointed to by
.I info
was
.I NULL
and allocating memory
sufficient to hold a ucred failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address of the
.I info
argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is no associated door client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The location pointed to by
.I info
was
.I NULL
and allocating memory
sufficient to hold a ucred failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR door_call (3C),
.BR door_create (3C),
.BR ucred_get (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
