'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH door_return 3C "22 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
door_return \- return from a door invocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_return\fR(\fBchar *\fIdata_ptr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIdata_size\fR, \fBdoor_desc_t *\fIdesc_ptr\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fInum_desc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_return()
function returns from a door invocation. It returns
control to the thread that issued the associated
.B door_call()
and blocks
waiting for the next door invocation. See
.BR door_call (3C).
Results, if
any, from the door invocation are passed back  to the client in the buffers
pointed to by
.I data_ptr
and
.IR desc_ptr .
If there is not a client
associated with the
.BR door_return() ,
the calling thread discards the
.RB "results, releases any passed descriptors with the" " DOOR_RELEASE"
attribute, and blocks waiting for the next door invocation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B door_return()
does not return to the
calling process. Otherwise,
.B door_return()
returns \fB\(mi1\fR to the
calling process and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_return()
function fails and returns to the calling process
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B E2BIG
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Arguments were too big for client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address of
.I data_ptr
or
.I desc_ptr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Invalid
.B door_return()
arguments were passed or a thread is bound to a
door that no longer exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The client has too many open descriptors.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR door_call\fR(3C),\fBattributes (5)
