'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH door_cred 3C "22 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
door_cred \- return credential information associated with the client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_cred\fR(\fBdoor_cred_t *\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_cred()
function returns credential information associated
with the  client (if any) of the current door invocation.
.sp
.LP
The contents of the
.I info
argument include the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uid_t   dc_euid;        /* Effective uid of client */
gid_t   dc_egid;        /* Effective gid of client */
uid_t   dc_ruid;        /* Real uid of client */
gid_t   dc_rgid;        /* Real gid of client */
pid_t   dc_pid;         /* pid of client */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The credential information associated with the client refers to the
information from the immediate caller; not necessarily from the first thread
in a chain of door calls.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B door_cred()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
.B door_cred()
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_cred()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address of the
.I info
argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is no associated door client.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_cred()
function is obsolete. Applications should use the
.BR door_ucred (3C)
function in place of
.BR door_cred() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR door_call (3C),
.BR door_create (3C),
.BR door_ucred (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
