'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH door_revoke 3C "22 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
door_revoke \- revoke access to a door descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_revoke\fR(\fBint\fR \fId\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_revoke()
function revokes access to a door descriptor. Door
descriptors are created with 
.BR door_create (3C).
The \fBdoor_revoke()\fR
function performs an implicit call to
.BR close (2),
marking the door
descriptor
.I d
as invalid.
.sp
.LP
A door descriptor can be revoked only by the process that created it.  Door
invocations that are in progress during a
.B door_revoke()
invocation are
allowed to complete normally.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B door_revoke()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
.B door_revoke()
returns \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B door_revoke()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An invalid door descriptor was passed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The door descriptor was not created by this process (with
.BR door_create (3C)).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR door_create (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
