'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dup2 3C "19 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dup2 \- duplicate an open file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdup2\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfildes2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dup2()
function causes the file descriptor
.I fildes2
to refer
to the same file as
.IR fildes .
The
.I fildes
argument is a file
descriptor referring to an open file, and
.I fildes2
is a non-negative
integer less than the current value for the maximum number of open file
descriptors allowed the calling process.  See
.BR getrlimit (2).
If
.I fildes2
already refers to an open file, not
.IR fildes ,
it is closed
first. If
.I fildes2
refers to
.IR fildes ,
or if
.I fildes
is not a
valid open file descriptor,
.I fildes2
will not be closed first.
.sp
.LP
The
.B dup2()
function is equivalent to  \fBfcntl\fR(\fIfildes\fR,
.BR F_DUP2FD ,
.IR fildes2 ).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion a non-negative integer representing the file
descriptor is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B dup2()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes2
argument is negative or is not less than the current
resource limit returned by
.BR "getrlimit(RLIMIT_NOFILE, .\|.\|.)" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A signal was caught during the
.B dup2()
call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The process has too many open files.  See
.BR fcntl (2).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR creat (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
