'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH encrypt 3C "2 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
encrypt \- encoding function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <crypt.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBencrypt\fR(\fBchar\fR \fIblock[64]\fR, \fBint\fR \fIedflag\fR);
.fi

.SS "Standard conforming"
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBencrypt\fR(\fBchar\fR \fIblock[64]\fR, \fBint\fR \fIedflag\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B encrypt()
function provides (rather primitive) access to the
hashing algorithm employed by the \fBcrypt\fR(3C) function. The key
generated by
.BR setkey "(3C) is used to encrypt the string"
.I block
with
.BR encrypt() .
.sp
.LP
The
.I block
argument to
.B encrypt()
is an array of length 64 bytes
containing only the bytes with numerical value of 0 and 1. The array is
modified in place to a similar array using the key set by
.BR setkey (3C).
If \fIedflag\fR is 0, the argument is encoded.  If \fIedflag\fR is 1, the
argument may be decoded (see the
.B USAGE
section below); if the argument
is not decoded,
.B errno
will be set to
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B encrypt()
function returns no value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B encrypt()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The functionality is not supported on this implementation.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
In some environments, decoding may not be implemented.  This is related to
U.S. Government restrictions on encryption and decryption routines: the
.B DES
decryption algorithm cannot be exported outside the U.S.A.
Historical practice has been to ship a different version of the encryption
library without the decryption feature in the routines supplied. Thus the
exported version of
.B encrypt()
does encoding but not decoding.
.sp
.LP
Because
.B encrypt()
does not return a value, applications wishing to
check for errors should set
.B errno
to 0, call
.BR encrypt() ,
then
test
.B errno
and, if it is non-zero, assume an error has occurred.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR setkey (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
