'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH end 3C "31 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
end, _end, etext, _etext, edata, _edata \- last locations in program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBextern int \fI_etext\fB;\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBextern int \fI_edata\fB;\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBextern int \fI_end\fB;\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These names refer neither to routines nor to locations with interesting
contents; only their addresses are meaningful.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _etext
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address of
.B _etext
is the first location after the last read-only
loadable segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _edata
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The address of
.B _edata
is the first location after the last read-write
loadable segment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B _end
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If the address of
.B _edata
is greater than the address of
.BR _etext ,
the address of _end is same as the address of
.BR _edata .
.sp
If the address of
.B _etext
is greater than the address of
.BR _edata ,
the address of
.B _end
is set to the page boundary after the address
pointed to by
.BR _etext .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
When execution begins, the program break (the first location beyond the
data) coincides with
.BR _end ,
but the program break can be reset by the
.BR brk (2),
.BR malloc (3C),
and the standard input/output library (see
.BR stdio (3C)),
functions by the profile
.RB ( -p )
option of
.BR cc ,
and so on. Thus, the current value of the program break should be determined
by
.BR "sbrk ((char *)0)" .
.sp
.LP
References to
.BR end ,
.BR etext ,
and
.BR edata ,
without a preceding
underscore will be aliased to the associated symbol that begins with the
underscore.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR brk (2),
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR stdio (3C)
