'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996-2001 Wolfram Schneider. Berlin.
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1995 Berkeley Software Design, Inc.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH err 3C "20 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
err, verr, errx, verrx, warn, vwarn, warnx, vwarnx \- formatted error
messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <err.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBerr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIeval\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, .\|.\|.);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBverr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIeval\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIargs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBerrx\fR(\fBint\fR \fIeval\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, .\|.\|.);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBverrx\fB(int\fR \fIeval\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIargs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBwarn\fR(\fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, .\|.\|.);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBvwarn\fR(\fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIargs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBwarnx\fR(\fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, .\|.\|.);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBvwarnx\fR(\fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIargs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B err()
and
.B warn()
family of functions display a formatted
error message on the standard error output. In all cases, the last component
of the program name, followed by a colon character and a space, are output.
If the
.I fmt
argument is not
.IR NULL ,
the formatted error message is
output. In the case of the
.BR err() ,
.BR verr() ,
.BR warn() ,
and
.B vwarn()
functions, the error message string affiliated with the
current value of the global variable
.B errno
is output next, preceded by
a colon character and a space if
.I fmt
is not
.IR NULL .
In all cases,
the output is followed by a newline character.  The
.BR errx() ,
.BR verrx() ,
.BR warnx() ,
and
.B vwarnx()
functions will not output
this error message string.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR err() ,
.BR verr() ,
.BR errx() ,
and
.B verrx()
functions do
not return, but instead cause the program to terminate with the status value
given by the argument status.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Display the current
.B errno
information string and
terminate with status indicating failure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if ((p = malloc(size)) == NULL)
    err(EXIT_FAILURE, NULL);
if ((fd = open(file_name, O_RDONLY, 0)) == -1)
    err(EXIT_FAILURE, "%s", file_name);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Display an error message and terminate with status
indicating failure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if (tm.tm_hour < START_TIME)
    errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "too early, wait until %s", start_time_string);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 3
Warn of an error.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if ((fd = open(raw_device, O_RDONLY, 0)) == -1)
    warnx("%s: %s: trying the block device",
        raw_device, strerror(errno));
if ((fd = open(block_device, O_RDONLY, 0)) == -1)
    warn("%s", block_device);
.fi
.in -2

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
It is important never to pass a string with user-supplied data as a format
without using `%s'. An attacker can put format specifiers in the string to
mangle the stack, leading to a possible security hole. This holds true even
if the string has been built ``by hand'' using a function like
.BR snprintf (3C),
as the resulting string can still contain user-supplied
conversion specifiers for later interpolation by the
.B err()
and
.B warn()
functions.
.sp
.LP
Always be sure to use the proper secure idiom:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
err(1, "%s", string);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe with Exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
These functions are safe to use in multithreaded applications as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not being called to change the locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exit (3C),
.BR getexecname (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR strerror (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
