'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH exit 3C "1 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
exit, _exithandle \- terminate process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBexit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fB_exithandle\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B exit()
function terminates a process by calling first
.B _exithandle()
and then
.B _exit()
(see
.BR exit (2)).
.sp
.LP
The
.B _exithandle()
function calls any functions registered through
the \fBatexit\fR(3C) function in the reverse order of their registration.
This action includes executing all finalization code from the \fI\&.fini\fR
sections of all objects that are part of the process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B _exithandle()
function is intended for use
.I only
with
.BR _exit() ,
and allows for specialized processing such as
.BR dldump (3C)
to be performed. Normal process execution should not be
continued after a call to
.B _exithandle()
has occurred, as internal data
structures may have been torn down due to
.B atexit()
or \fI\&.fini\fR
processing.
.sp
.LP
The symbols
.B EXIT_SUCCESS
and
.B EXIT_FAILURE
are defined in the
header <\fBstdlib.h\fR> and may be used as the value of
.I status
to
indicate successful or unsuccessful termination, respectively.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exit (2),
.BR atexit (3C),
.BR dldump (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
