'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fattach 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fattach \- attach a STREAMS- or doors-based file descriptor to an object in
the file system name space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stropts.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfattach\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fattach()
function attaches a STREAMS- or doors-based file
descriptor to an object in the file system name space, effectively
associating a name with
.IR fildes .
The
.I fildes
argument must be a
valid open file descriptor representing a STREAMS or doors file. The
.I path
argument is a path name of an existing object and the user must
have appropriate privileges or be the owner of the file and have write
permissions. All subsequent operations on
.I path
will operate on the
STREAMS or doors file until the STREAMS or doors file is detached from the
node. The
.I fildes
argument can be attached to more than one
.IR path ,
that is, a stream or door can have several names associated with it.
.sp
.LP
The attributes of the named stream or door (see
.BR stat (2)),
are
initialized as follows: the permissions, user ID, group ID, and times are
set to those of
.IR path ,
the number of links is set to 1, and the size
and device identifier are set to those of the streams or doors device
associated with
.IR fildes .
If any attributes of the named stream or door
are subsequently changed  (for example,
.BR chmod (2)),
the attributes of
the underlying object are not affected.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B fattach()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B fattach()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The user is the owner of
.I path
but does not have write permissions on
.I path
or
.I fildes
is locked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument is currently a mount point or has a STREAMS or
doors file descriptor attached to it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument is a file in a remotely mounted directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument does not represent a STREAMS or doors file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The size of
.I path
exceeds {\fBPATH_MAX\fR}, or the
component of a path name is longer than {\fBNAME_MAX\fR} while
{\fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR} is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I path
argument does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of a path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The effective user ID is not the owner of
.I path
or a user with the
appropriate privileges.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fdetach (1M),
.BR chmod (2),
.BR mount (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR door_create (3C),
.BR fdetach (3C),
.BR isastream (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
