'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fgetwc 3C "15 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fgetwc \- get a wide-character code from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBfgetwc\fR(\fBFILE*\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR function obtains the next character (if present) from
the input stream pointed to by
.IR stream ,
converts that to the
corresponding wide-character code and advances the associated file position
indicator for the stream (if defined).
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for
the stream is indeterminate.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR function may mark the \fBst_atime\fR field of the file
associated with
.I stream
for update. The
.B st_atime
field will be
marked for update by the first successful execution of
.BR fgetwc() ,
\fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C), \fBfgetws\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C),
\fBfscanf\fR(3C), \fBgetc\fR(3C), \fBgetchar\fR(3C), \fBgets\fR(3C), or
\fBscanf\fR(3C) using \fIstream\fR that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to \fBungetc\fR(3C) or \fBungetwc\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion the \fBfgetwc()\fR function returns the
wide-character code of the character read from the input stream pointed to
by
.I stream
converted to a type
.BR wint_t .
.sp
.LP
For standard-conforming (see
.BR standards (5))
applications, if the
end-of-file indicator for the stream is set, \fBfgetwc()\fR returns
\fBWEOF\fR whether or not the stream is at end-of-file.
.sp
.LP
If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set,
\fBfgetwc()\fR returns \fBWEOF\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the
error.
.sp
.LP
If an encoding error occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set,
\fBfgetwc()\fR returns
.BR WEOF ,
and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR function will fail if data needs to be read and:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag is set for the file descriptor underlying
\fIstream\fR and the process would be delayed in the \fBfgetwc()\fR
operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is not a valid file descriptor
open for reading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no
data was transferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is in a background
process group attempting to read from its controlling terminal and either
the process is ignoring or blocking the
.B SIGTTIN
signal or the process
group is orphaned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The file is a regular file and an attempt was made to read at or beyond the
offset maximum associated with the corresponding
.IR stream .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A request was made of a non-existent device, or the request was outside the
capabilities of the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EILSEQ
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The data obtained from the input stream does not form a valid character.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBferror\fR(3C) or \fBfeof\fR(3C) functions must be used to
distinguish between an error condition and an end-of-file condition.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfeof\fR(3C), \fBferror\fR(3C), \fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C),
\fBfgetws\fR(3C), \fBfopen\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C), \fBfscanf\fR(3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR getchar (3C),
.BR gets (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
.BR ungetwc (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
