'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fgetpos 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fgetpos \- get current file position information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfgetpos\fR(\fBFILE *\fIstream\fR, \fBfpos_t *\fIpos\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fgetpos()
function stores the current value of the file position
indicator for the stream pointed to by
.I stream
in the object pointed to
by
.IR pos .
The value stored contains unspecified information usable by
.BR fsetpos (3C)
for repositioning the stream to its position at the time
of the call to
.BR fgetpos() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B fgetpos()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns a non-zero value and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B fgetpos()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is associated with a pipe, a
FIFO, or a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The current value of the file position cannot be represented correctly in
an object of type
.BR fpos_t .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B fgetpos()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fsetpos (3C),
.BR ftell (3C),
.BR rewind (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR lf64 (5),
.BR standards (5)
