'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fnmatch 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fnmatch \- match filename or path name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fnmatch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfnmatch\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpattern\fR, \fBconst char *\fIstring\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fnmatch()
function matches patterns as described on the
.BR fnmatch (5)
manual page.  It checks the
.I string
argument to see if
it matches the
.I pattern
argument.
.sp
.LP
The
.I flags
argument modifies the interpretation of
.I pattern
and
.IR string .
It is the bitwise inclusive
.B OR
of zero or more of the
following flags defined in the header
.RB < fnmatch.h >.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FNM_PATHNAME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
If set, a slash
.RB ( / )
character in
.I string
will be explicitly
matched by a slash in
.IR pattern ;
it will not be matched by either the
.RB "asterisk (" * ") or question-mark (" ? )
special characters, nor by a
bracket (\fB[\|]\fR) expression.
.sp
If not set, the slash character is treated as an ordinary character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FNM_NOESCAPE
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
If not set, a backslash character (\fB\e\fR) in
.I pattern
followed by
any other character will match that second character in
.IR string .
In
particular, "\fB\e\e\fR" will match a backslash in \fIstring\fR.
.sp
If set, a backslash character will be treated as an ordinary character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FNM_PERIOD
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
If set, a leading period in
.I string
will match a period in
\fIpattern\fR; where the location of "leading" is indicated by the value of
.BR FNM_PATHNAME :
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBFNM_PATHNAME\fR is set, a period is "leading" if it is the first
character in
.I string
or if it immediately follows a slash.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBFNM_PATHNAME\fR is not set, a period is "leading" only if it is the
first character of
.IR string .
.RE
.RE

.sp
.LP
If not set, no special restrictions are placed on matching a period.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.I string
matches the pattern specified by
.IR pattern ,
then
.B fnmatch()
returns
.BR 0 .
If there is no match,
.B fnmatch()
returns
.BR FNM_NOMATCH ,
which is defined in the header
.RB < fnmatch.h >.
If an error occurs,
.B fnmatch()
returns another non-zero value.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B fnmatch()
function has two major uses. It could be used by an
application or utility that needs to read a directory and apply a pattern
against each entry. The
.BR find (1)
utility is an example of this. It can
also be used by the
.BR pax (1)
utility to process its
.IR pattern
operands, or by applications that need to match strings in a similar
manner.
.sp
.LP
The name
.BR fnmatch() " is intended to imply "
.I filename
match, rather
than
.I pathname
match. The default action of this function is to match
filenames, rather than path names, since it gives no special significance to
the slash character. With the
.B FNM_PATHNAME
flag,
.B fnmatch()
does
match path names, but without tilde expansion, parameter expansion, or
special treatment for period at the beginning of a filename.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fnmatch()
function can be used safely in multithreaded
applications, as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not being called to change
the locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR find (1),
.BR pax (1),
.BR glob (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR wordexp (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR fnmatch (5),
.BR standards (5)
