'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fputwc 3C "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fputwc, putwc, putwchar \- put wide-character code on a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBfputwc\fR(\fBwchar_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBFILE*\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwint_t\fR \fBputwc\fR(\fBwchar_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBFILE*\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBputwchar\fR(\fBwchar_t\fR \fIwc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fputwc()
function writes the character corresponding to the
wide-character code
.I wc
to the output stream pointed to by
.IR stream ,
at the position indicated by the associated file-position
indicator for the stream (if defined), and advances the indicator
appropriately. If the file cannot support positioning requests, or if the
stream was opened with append mode, the character is appended to the output
stream. If an error occurs while writing the character, the shift state of
the output file is left in an undefined state.
.sp
.LP
The
.B st_ctime
and
.B st_mtime
fields of the file will be marked for
update between the successful execution of
.B fputwc()
and the next
successful completion of a call to
.BR fflush (3C)
or \fBfclose\fR(3C) on
the same stream or a call to
.BR exit (2)
or
.BR abort (3C).
.sp
.LP
The
.B putwc()
function is equivalent to
.BR fputwc() ,
except that it
is implemented as a macro.
.sp
.LP
The call \fBputwchar(\fIwc\fB)\fR is equivalent to
\fBputwc(\fIwc,\fB stdout)\fI\&.\fR The
.B putwchar()
routine is
implemented as a macro.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.BR fputwc() ,
.BR putwc() ,
and
.B putwchar()
return
.IR wc .
Otherwise, they return
.BR WEOF ,
the
error indicator for the stream is set, and
.B errno
is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR fputwc() ,
.BR putwc() ,
and
.B putwchar()
functions will fail
if either the stream is unbuffered or data in the
.IR stream 's
buffer
needs to be written, and:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag is set for the file descriptor underlying
.I stream
and the process would be delayed in the write operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is not a valid file descriptor
open for writing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFBIG
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An attempt was made to write to a file that exceeds the maximum file size
or the process's file size limit; or the file is a regular file and an
attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum associated with
the corresponding stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The write operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no
data was transferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is a member of a
background process group attempting to write to its controlling terminal,
.B TOSTOP
is set, the process is neither ignoring nor blocking
.BR SIGTTOU ,
and the process group of the process is orphaned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An attempt is made to write to a pipe or
.B FIFO
that is not open for
reading by any process. A
.B SIGPIPE
signal will also be sent to the
calling thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR fputwc() ,
.BR putwc() ,
and
.B putwchar()
functions may fail
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A request was made of a non-existent device, or the request was outside the
capabilities of the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EILSEQ
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The wide-character code
.I wc
does not correspond to a valid
character.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Functions exist for the
.B putwc()
and
.B putwchar()
macros. To get
the function form, the macro name must be undefined (for example, \fB#undef putc\fR).
.sp
.LP
When the macro form is used,
.B putwc()
evaluates the
.IR stream
argument more than once. In particular, \fBputwc(\fIwc\fB, \fI*f++\fB)\fR does not work sensibly.  The \fBfputwc()\fR function
should be used instead when evaluating the
.I stream
argument has side
effects.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exit (2),
.BR ulimit (2),
.BR abort (3C),
.BR fclose (3C),
.BR ferror (3C),
.BR fflush (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR setbuf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
