'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fread 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fread \- binary input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBfread\fR(\fBvoid *\fIptr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInitems\fR, \fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fread()
function reads into the array pointed to by
.I ptr
up
to
.I nitems
elements whose size is specified by
.I size
in bytes,
from the stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
.RI "For each object," " size"
calls are made to the \fBfgetc\fR(3C) function and the results stored, in
the order read, in an array of
.B "unsigned char"
exactly overlaying the
object. The file-position indicator for the stream (if defined) is advanced
by the number of bytes successfully read. If an error occurs, the resulting
value of the file-position indicator for the stream is unspecified. If a
partial element is read, its value is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfread()\fR function may mark the \fBst_atime\fR field of the file
associated with
.I stream
for update. The
.B st_atime
field will be
marked for update by the first successful execution of \fBfgetc\fR(3C),
.BR fgets (3C),
.BR fgetwc (3C),
.BR fgetws (3C),
.BR fread() ,
.BR fscanf (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR getchar (3C),
.BR gets (3C),
or
.BR scanf (3C)
using
.I stream
that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to
.BR ungetc "(3C) or"
.BR ungetwc (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B fread()
returns the number of elements
successfully read, which is less than
.I nitems
only if a read error or
end-of-file is encountered. If
.I size
or
.I nitems
is 0,
.B fread()
returns 0 and the contents of the array and the state of the
stream remain unchanged.  Otherwise, if a read error occurs, the error
indicator for the stream is set and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBfgetc\fR(3C).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Reading from a Stream
.sp
.LP
The following example reads a single element from the
.I fp
stream into
the array pointed to by
.IR buf .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
\&...
size_t bytes_read;
char buf[100];
FILE *fp;
\&...
bytes_read = fread(buf, sizeof(buf), 1, fp);
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBferror()\fR or \fBfeof()\fR functions must be used to distinguish
between an error condition and end-of-file condition. See
.BR ferror (3C).
.sp
.LP
Because of possible differences in element length and byte ordering, files
written using \fBfwrite\fR(3C) are application-dependent, and possibly
cannot be read using
.B fread()
by a different application or by the same
application on a different processor.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR read (2),
.BR fclose (3C),
.BR ferror (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR gets (3C),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR putc (3C),
.BR puts (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
