'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fsetpos 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fsetpos \- reposition a file pointer in a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfsetpos\fR(\fBFILE *\fIstream\fR, \fBconst fpos_t *\fIpos\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fsetpos()
function sets the file position indicator for the
stream pointed to by
.I stream
according to the value of the object
pointed to by
.IR pos ,
which must be a value obtained from an earlier call
to \fBfgetpos\fR(3C) on the same stream.
.sp
.LP
A successful call to
.B fsetpos()
function clears the end-of-file
indicator for the stream and undoes any effects of
.BR ungetc "(3C) on the"
same stream.  After an
.B fsetpos()
call, the next operation on an update
stream may be either input or output.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBfsetpos()\fR function returns \fB0\fR if it succeeds; otherwise it
returns a non-zero value and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B fsetpos()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is associated with a pipe, a
FIFO, or a socket.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B fsetpos()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lseek (2),
.BR fgetpos (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fseek (3C),
.BR ftell (3C),
.BR rewind (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR lf64 (5),
.BR standards (5)
