'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ftell 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ftell, ftello \- return a file offset in a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBftell\fR(\fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBoff_t\fR \fBftello\fR(\fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftell()
function obtains the current value of the file-position
indicator for the stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
The \fBftello()\fR
function is identical to
.B ftell()
except for the return type.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBftell()\fR and \fBftello()\fR functions
return the current value of the file-position indicator for the stream
measured in bytes from the beginning of the file. Otherwise, they return
\fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBftell()\fR and \fBftello()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is not an open file
descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The file descriptor underlying
.I stream
is associated with a pipe, a
FIFO, or a socket.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ftell()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The current file offset cannot be represented correctly in an object of
type
.BR long .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ftello()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The current file offset cannot be represented correctly in an object of
type
.BR off_t .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftello()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lseek (2),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fseek (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
,
.BR standards (5),
.BR lf64 (5)
