'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fwide 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fwide \- set stream orientation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfwide\fR(\fBFILE *\fIstream\fR, \fBint\fR \fImode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fwide()
function determines the orientation of the stream pointed
to by
.IR stream .
If
.I mode
is greater than 0, the function first
attempts to make the stream wide-orientated.  If
.I mode
is less than 0,
the function first attempts to make the stream byte-orientated.  Otherwise,
.I mode
is 0 and the function does not alter the orientation of the
stream.
.sp
.LP
If the orientation of the stream has already been determined, \fBfwide()\fR
does not change it.
.sp
.LP
Because no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application
wishing to check for error situations should set
.B errno
to 0, then call
.BR fwide() ,
then check
.B errno
and if it is non-zero, assume an error
has occurred.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B fwide()
function returns a value greater than 0 if, after the
call, the stream has wide-orientation, a value less than 0 if the stream has
byte-orientation, or 0 if the stream has no orientation.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B fwide()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The
.I stream
argument is not a valid stream.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
A call to
.B fwide()
with
.I mode
set to 0 can be used to determine
the current orientation of a stream.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
