'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fwrite 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fwrite \- binary output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBfwrite\fR(\fBconst void *\fIptr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInitems\fR, \fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fwrite()
function writes, from the array pointed to by
.IR ptr ,
up to
.I nitems
elements whose size is specified by
.IR size ,
to the
stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
For each object,
.I size
calls are
made to the
.BR fputc (3C)
function, taking the values (in order) from an
array of
.B "unsigned char"
exactly overlaying the object. The
file-position indicator for the stream (if defined) is advanced by the
number of bytes successfully written. If an error occurs, the resulting
value of the file-position indicator for the stream is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The
.B st_ctime
and
.B st_mtime
fields of the file will be marked for
update between the successful execution of
.B fwrite()
and the next
successful completion of a call to
.BR fflush (3C)
or \fBfclose\fR(3C) on
the same stream or a call to
.BR exit (2)
or
.BR abort (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B fwrite()
function returns the number of elements successfully
written, which might be less than
.I nitems
if a write error is
encountered. If
.I size
or
.I nitems
is 0,
.B fwrite()
returns 0
and the state of the stream remains unchanged. Otherwise, if a write error
occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR fputc (3C).
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Because of possible differences in element length and byte ordering, files
written using
.B fwrite()
are application-dependent, and possibly cannot
be read using
.BR fread (3C)
by a different application or by the same
application on a different processor.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR write (2),
.BR fclose (3C),
.BR ferror (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fread (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR gets (3C),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR putc (3C),
.BR puts (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
