'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getcpuid 3C "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getcpuid, gethomelgroup \- obtain information on scheduling decisions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/processor.h>

\fBprocessorid_t\fR \fBgetcpuid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBushort_t\fR \fBgethomelgroup\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getcpuid()
function returns the processor ID on which the calling
thread is currently executing.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethomelgroup()
function returns the home locality group ID of
the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR DESCRIPTION .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Both the current CPU and the home locality group can change at any time.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityT{
\fBgetcpuid()\fR is Stable; \fBgethomelgroup()\fR is Obsolete.
T}
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR psradm (1M),
.BR psrinfo (1M),
.BR psrset (1M),
.BR p_online (2),
.BR processor_bind (2),
.BR processor_info (2),
.BR pset_assign (2),
.BR pset_bind (2),
.BR pset_info (2),
.BR meminfo (2),
.BR lgrp_home (3LGRP),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethomelgroup()
function is obsolete and might be removed in a
future release. It has been replaced by
.BR lgrp_home (3LGRP).
