'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getenv 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getenv \- return value for environment name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBchar *\fBgetenv\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getenv()
function searches the environment list (see
.BR environ (5))
for a string of the form \fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR and,
if the string is present, returns a pointer to the
.I value
in the
current environment.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B getenv()
returns a pointer to the
.I value
in the
current environment; otherwise, it returns a null pointer.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B getenv()
function can be safely called from a multithreaded
application. Care must be exercised when using both
.B getenv()
and
.BR putenv (3C)
in a multithreaded application.  These functions examine
and modify the environment list, which is shared by all threads in an
application. The system prevents the list from being accessed simultaneously
by two different threads.  It does not, however, prevent two threads from
successively accessing the environment list using
.B getenv()
or
.BR putenv (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR putenv (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
