'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gethostid 3C "29 Jan 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gethostid \- get an identifier for the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBgethostid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethostid()
function returns the 32-bit identifier for the
current host. If the hardware capability exists, this identifier is taken
from platform-dependent stable storage; otherwise it is a randomly generated
number. It is not guaranteed to be unique.
.sp
.LP
If the calling thread's process is executing within a non-global zone that
emulates a host identifier, then the zone's emulated 32-bit host identifier
is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR hostid (1),
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR zones (5)
