'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getloadavg 3C "28 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getloadavg \- get system load averages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/loadavg.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetloadavg\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIloadavg\fR[\|], \fBint\fR \fInelem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getloadavg()
function returns the number of processes in the
system run queue averaged over various periods of time. Up to
.I nelem
samples are retrieved and assigned to successive elements of
\fIloadavg\fR[\|]. The system imposes a maximum of 3 samples, representing
averages over the last 1, 5, and 15 minutes, respectively. The
.BR LOADAVG_1MIN ,
.BR LOADAVG_5MIN ,
and
.B LOADAVG_15MIN
indices,
defined in
.RB < sys/loadavg.h >,
can be used to extract the data from the
appropriate element of the \fIloadavg\fB[\|]\fR array.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the number of samples actually retrieved is
returned. If the load average was unobtainable, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getloadavg()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The number of elements specified is less than 0.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the caller is in a non-global zone and the pools facility is active, the
behavior of
.B getloadavg()
is equivalent to that of
.BR pset_getloadavg (3C)
called with
.I psetid
set to
.BR PS_MYID .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uptime (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR pooladm (1M),
.BR Kstat (3PERL),
.BR pset_getloadavg (3C),
.BR standards (5)
