'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getmntent 3C "22 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getmntent, getmntany, getextmntent, hasmntopt, putmntent, resetmnttab \-
get mounted device information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/mnttab.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetmntent\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR, \fBstruct mnttab *\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetmntany\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR, \fBstruct mnttab *\fImp\fR, \fBstruct mnttab *\fImpref\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetextmntent\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR, \fBstruct extmnttab *\fImp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBhasmntopt\fR(\fBstruct mnttab *\fImnt\fR, \fBchar *\fIopt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBputmntent\fR(\fBFILE *\fIiop\fR, \fBstruct mnttab *\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBresetmnttab\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "\fBgetmntent()\fR and \fBgetmntany()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B getmntent()
and
.B getmntany()
functions each fill in the
structure pointed to by
.I mp
with the broken-out fields of a line in the
.B mnttab
file. Each line read from the file contains a
.B mnttab
structure, which is defined in the
.RB < sys/mnttab.h >
header. The
structure contains the following members, which correspond to the broken-out
fields from a line in
.B /etc/mnttab
(see
.BR mnttab (4)).
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char   *mnt_special;     /* name of mounted resource */
char   *mnt_mountp;      /* mount point */
char   *mnt_fstype;      /* type of file system mounted */
char   *mnt_mntopts;     /* options for this mount */
char   *mnt_time;        /* time file system mounted */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Fields with no actual content in
.B /etc/mnttab
are represented in the
file as "-". To clearly distinguish empty fields,
.B getmntent()
set the
corresponding field in
.I mp
to
.IR NULL .
.sp
.LP
Each
.B getmntent()
call causes a new line to be read from the
.B mnttab
file. Successive calls can be used to search the entire list.
The
.B getmntany()
function searches the file referenced by
.I fp
until a match is found between a line in the file and
.IR mpref .
A match
occurs if all non-null entries in
.I mpref
match the corresponding fields
in the file. These functions do not open, close, or rewind the file.
.SS "\fBgetextmntent()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B getextmntent()
function is an extended version of the
.B getmntent()
function that returns, in addition to the information that
.B getmntent()
returns, the major and minor number of the mounted
resource to which the line in
.B mnttab
corresponds. The
.B getextmntent()
function also fills in the
.B extmntent
structure
defined in the
.RB < sys/mnttab.h >
header.  For
.B getextmntent()
to
function properly, it must be notified when the
.B mnttab
file has been
reopened or rewound since a previous
.B getextmntent()
call.  This
notification is accomplished by calling
.BR resetmnttab() .
Otherwise, it
behaves exactly as
.B getmntent()
described above
.sp
.LP
The data pointed to by the
.B mnttab
structure members are stored in a
static area and must be copied to be saved between successive calls.
.SS "\fBhasmntopt()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B hasmntopt()
function scans the
.B mnt_mntopts
member of the
.B mnttab
structure
.I mnt
for a substring that matches
.IR opt .
It
returns the address of the substring if a match is found; otherwise it
returns
.BR 0 .
Substrings are delimited by commas and the end of the
.B mnt_mntopts
string.
.SS "\fBputmntent()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B putmntent()
function is obsolete and no longer has any effect.
Entries appear in
.B mnttab
as a side effect of a
.BR mount (2)
call.
The function name is still defined for transition purposes.
.SS "\fBresetmnttab()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B resetmnttab()
function notifies
.B getextmntent()
to reload
from the kernel the device information that corresponds to the new snapshot
of the
.B mnttab
information (see
.BR mnttab (4)).
Subsequent
.B getextmntent()
calls then return correct
.B extmnttab
information.
This function should be called whenever the
.B mnttab
file is either
rewound or closed and reopened before any calls are made to
.BR getextmntent() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.SS "\fBgetmntent()\fR and \fBgetmntany()\fR"
.sp
.LP
If the next entry is successfully read by
.B getmntent()
or a match is
found with
.BR getmntany() ,
.B 0
is returned.  If an
.B EOF
is
.RB "encountered on reading, these functions return " \(mi1 \&.
If an error is
encountered, a value greater than 0 is returned. The following error values
are defined in
.BR <sys/mnttab.h> :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MNT_TOOLONG
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file exceeded the internal buffer size of
.BR MNT_LINE_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MNT_TOOMANY
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file contains too many fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MNT_TOOFEW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file contains too few fields.
.RE

.SS "\fBhasmntopt()\fR"
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B hasmntopt()
returns the address of the
substring if a match is found. Otherwise, it returns
.BR 0 .
.SS "\fBputmntent()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B putmntent()
is obsolete and always returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mount (2),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR attributes (5)
