'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getpagesizes 3C "14 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getpagesizes \- get system supported page sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetpagesizes\fR(\fBsize_t\fR \fIpagesize\fR[\|], \fBint\fR \fInelem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpagesizes()
function returns either the number of different
page sizes supported by the system or the actual sizes themselves.  When
called with
.I nelem
as 0 and pagesize as
.IR NULL ,
.B getpagesizes()
returns the number of supported page sizes. Otherwise,
up to
.I nelem
page sizes are retrieved and assigned to successive
elements of
.IR pagesize [\|].
The return value is the number of page
sizes retrieved and set in
.IR pagesize [\|].
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the number of pagesizes supported or actually
retrieved is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpagesizes()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I nelem
argument is less than 0 or
.I pagesize
is
.I NULL
but
.I nelem
is non-zero.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpagesizes()
function returns all the page sizes for which the
hardware and system software provide support for the
.BR memcntl (2)
command
.BR MC_HAT_ADVISE .
Not all processors support all page sizes or
combinations of page sizes with equal efficiency. Applications programmers
should take this into consideration when using
.BR getpagesizes() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR memcntl (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR getpagesize (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
