'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gets 3C "15 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gets, fgets \- get a string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBchar *\fBgets\fR(\fBchar *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBfgets\fR(\fBchar *\fIs\fR, \fBint\fR \fIn\fR, \fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gets()
function reads bytes from the standard input stream (see
.BR Intro (3)),
.BR stdin ,
into the array pointed to by
.IR s ,
until a
newline character is read or an end-of-file condition is encountered. The
newline character is discarded and the string is terminated with a null
byte.
.sp
.LP
If the length of an input line exceeds the size of
.IR s ,
indeterminate
behavior may result. For this reason, it is strongly recommended that
.B gets()
be avoided in favor of \fBfgets()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fgets()
function reads bytes from the
.I stream
into the array
pointed to by
.IR s ,
until \fIn\fR\(mi1 bytes are read, or a newline
character is read and transferred to
.IR s ,
or an end-of-file condition is
encountered. The string is then terminated with a null byte.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgets()\fR and \fBgets()\fR functions may mark the \fBst_atime\fR
field of the file associated with
.I stream
for update. The
.B st_atime
field will be marked for update by the first successful
execution of \fBfgetc\fR(3C),
.BR fgets() ,
.BR fread (3C),
.BR fscanf (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR getchar (3C),
.BR gets() ,
or
.BR scanf (3C)
using
.I stream
that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to
.BR ungetc "(3C) or"
.BR ungetwc (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If end-of-file is encountered and no bytes have been read, no bytes are
transferred to
.I s
and a null pointer is returned. For
standard-conforming (see
.BR standards (5))
applications, if the
end-of-file indicator for the stream is set, no bytes are transferred to
.I s
and a null pointer is returned whether or not the stream is at
end-of-file. If a read error occurs, such as trying to use these functions
on a file that has not been opened for reading, a null pointer is returned
and the error indicator for the stream is set. If end-of-file is
encountered, the
.B EOF
indicator for the stream is set.  Otherwise
.I s
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBfgetc\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR ferror (3C),
.BR fgetc (3C),
.BR fgetwc (3C),
.BR fopen (3C),
.BR fread (3C),
.BR getchar (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR stdio (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
.BR ungetwc (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
