'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gettxt 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gettxt \- retrieve a text string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <nl_types.h>

\fBchar *\fBgettxt\fR(\fBconst char *\fImsgid\fR, \fBconst char *\fIdflt_str\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B gettxt()
function retrieves a text string from a message file.
The arguments to the function are a message identification
.I msgid
and a
default string \fIdflt_str\fR to be used if the retrieval fails.
.sp
.LP
The text strings are in files created by the
.B mkmsgs
utility (see
.BR mkmsgs (1))
and installed in directories in
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fR/LC_MESSAGES\fR.
.sp
.LP
The directory
.B locale
can be viewed as the language in which the text
strings are written. The user can request that messages be displayed in a
specific language by setting the environment variable
.BR LC_MESSAGES .
If
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR is not set, the environment variable \fBLANG\fR will be
used. If
.B LANG
is not set, the files containing the strings are in
.BR /usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/* .
.sp
.LP
The user can also change the language in which the messages are displayed
by invoking the \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) function with the appropriate
arguments.
.sp
.LP
If
.B gettxt()
fails to retrieve a message in a specific language it
will try to retrieve the same message in U.S. English. On failure, the
processing depends on what the second argument \fIdflt_str\fR points to. A
pointer to the second argument is returned if the second argument is not the
null string. If  \fIdflt_str\fR points to the null string, a pointer to the
U.S. English text string \fB"Message not found!!\en"\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
The following depicts the acceptable syntax of
.I msgid
for a call to
.BR gettxt() .
.sp
.LP
\fI<msgid>\fB = \fI<msgfilename>\fB:\fI<msgnumber>\fR
.sp
.LP
The first field is used to indicate the file that contains the text strings
and must be limited to 14 characters. These characters must be selected from
the set of all character values excluding \e0 (null) and the \fBASCII\fR
code for
.B /
(slash) and
.B :
(colon). The names of message files
must be the same as the names of files created by
.B mkmsgs
and installed
in \fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fR/LC_MESSAGES/*\fR. The numeric field
indicates the sequence number of the string in the file. The strings are
numbered from 1 to
.I n
where
.I n
is the number of strings in the
file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon failure to pass either the correct
.I msgid
or a valid message
number to  \fBgettxt()\fR, a pointer to the text string \fB"Message not
found!!\en"\fR is returned.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
It is recommended that \fBgettext\fR(3C) be used in place of this
function.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Example of \fBgettxt()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
In the following example,

.sp
.in +2
.nf
gettxt("UX:10", "hello world\en")
gettxt("UX:10", "")
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBUX\fR is the name of the file that contains the messages and \fB10\fR is
the message number.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
contains  default message files created by
.BR mkmsgs
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fR/LC_MESSAGES/*\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
contains message files for different languages created by
.BR mkmsgs
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exstr (1),
.BR mkmsgs (1),
.BR srchtxt (1),
.BR gettext (3C),
\fBfmtmsg\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
.BR environ (5)
