'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH gettimeofday 3C "1 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gettimeofday, settimeofday \- get or set the date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgettimeofday\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fItp\fR, \fBvoid *\fItzp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsettimeofday\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fItp\fR, \fBvoid *\fItzp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgettimeofday()\fR function gets and the \fBsettimeofday()\fR
function sets the system's notion of the current time. The current time is
expressed in elapsed seconds and microseconds since 00:00 Universal
Coordinated Time, January 1, 1970. The resolution of the system clock is
hardware dependent; the time may be updated continuously or in clock
ticks.
.sp
.LP
The
.I tp
argument points to a
.B timeval
structure, which includes
the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
long    tv_sec;    /* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
long    tv_usec;   /* and microseconds */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If
.I tp
is a null pointer, the current time information is not returned
or set.
.sp
.LP
The
.B TZ
environment variable holds time zone information. See
.BR TIMEZONE (4).
.sp
.LP
The
.I tzp
argument to \fBgettimeofday()\fR and \fBsettimeofday()\fR is
ignored.
.sp
.LP
Only privileged processes can set the time of day.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsettimeofday()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The structure pointed to by
.I tp
specifies an invalid time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_TIME\fR} privilege was not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgettimeofday()\fR function will fail for 32-bit interfaces if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The system time has progressed beyond 2038, thus the size of the
\fBtv_sec\fR member of the \fBtimeval\fR structure pointed to by \fItp\fR is
insufficient to hold the current time in seconds.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the
.B tv_usec
member of
.I tp
is > 500000, \fBsettimeofday()\fR
rounds the seconds upward. If the time needs to be set with better than one
second accuracy, call \fBsettimeofday()\fR for the seconds and then
.BR adjtime (2)
for finer accuracy.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability\fBgettimeofday()\fR is Standard.
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR adjtime (2),
.BR ctime (3C),
.BR gethrtime (3C),
.BR TIMEZONE (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
