'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getvfsent 3C "12 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getvfsent, getvfsfile, getvfsspec, getvfsany \- get vfstab file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/vfstab.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetvfsent\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR, \fBstruct vfstab *\fIvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetvfsfile\fR(\fBFILE *\fIfp\fR, \fBstruct vfstab *\fIvp\fR, \fBchar *\fIfile\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetvfsspec\fR(\fBFILE *\fR, \fBstruct vfstab *\fIvp\fR, \fBchar *\fIspec\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetvfsany\fR(\fBFILE *\fR, \fBstruct vfstab *\fIvp\fR, \fBstruct vfstab *\fIvref\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR getvfsent() ,
.BR getvfsfile() ,
.BR getvfsspec() ,
and
.B getvfsany()
functions each fill in the structure pointed to by
.I vp
with the broken-out fields of a line in the
.B /etc/vfstab
file.
Each line in the file contains a
.B vfstab
structure, declared in the
<\fBsys/vfstab.h\fR> header, whose following members are described on the
.BR vfstab (4)
manual page:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB	char	*vfs_special;
	char	*vfs_fsckdev;
	char	*vfs_mountp;
	char	*vfs_fstype;
	char	*vfs_fsckpass;
	char	*vfs_automnt;
	char	*vfs_mntopts;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetvfsent()\fR function returns a pointer to the next \fBvfstab\fR
structure in the file; so successive calls can be used to search the entire
file.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetvfsfile()\fR function searches the file referenced by \fIfp\fR
until a mount point matching
.B file
is found and fills
.I vp
with the
fields from the line in the file.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetvfsspec()\fR function searches the file referenced by \fIfp\fR
until a special device matching
.I spec
is found and fills
.I vp
with
the fields from the line in the file.  The
.I spec
argument will try to
match on device type (block or character special) and major and minor device
numbers. If it cannot match in this manner, then it compares the strings.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetvfsany()\fR function searches the file referenced by \fIfp\fR
until a match is found between a line in the file and
.IR vref .
A match
occurrs if all non-null entries in
.I vref
match the corresponding fields
in the file.
.sp
.LP
Note that these functions do not open, close, or rewind the file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the next entry is successfully read by
.B getvfsent()
or a match is
found with
.BR getvfsfile() ,
.BR getvfsspec() ,
or \fBgetvfsany()\fR,
.B 0
is returned. If an end-of-file is encountered on reading, these
functions return \fB\(mi1\fR\&. If an error is encountered, a value greater
than 0 is returned. The possible error values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VFS_TOOLONG
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file exceeded the internal buffer size of
.BR VFS_LINE_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VFS_TOOMANY
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file contains too many fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VFS_TOOFEW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A line in the file contains too few fields.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/vfstab
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR vfstab (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The members of the
.B vfstab
structure point to information contained in
a static area, so it must be copied if it is to be saved.
