'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getwidth 3C "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getwidth \- get codeset information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <euc.h>
#include <getwidth.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBgetwidth\fR(\fBeucwidth_t *\fIptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getwidth()
function reads the character class table for the current
locale to get information on the supplementary codesets.
.B getwidth()
sets
this information into the struct
.BR eucwidth_t .
This struct is defined in
.RB < euc.h >
and has the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
short int   _eucw1,_eucw2,_eucw3;
short int   _scrw1,_scrw2,_scrw3;
short int   _pcw;
char        _multibyte;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Codeset width values for supplementary codesets 1, 2, and 3 are set in
.BR _eucw1 ,
.BR _eucw2 ,
and
.BR _eucw3 ,
respectively. Screen width
values for supplementary codesets 1, 2, and 3 are set in
.BR _scrw1 ,
.BR _scrw2 ,
and
.BR _scrw3 ,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
The width of  Extended Unix Code (EUC) Process Code is set in
.BR _pcw .
The
.B _multibyte
entry is set to
.B 1
if multibyte characters are used, and
set to
.B 0
if only single-byte characters are used.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR euclen (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getwidth()
function can be used safely in a multithreaded
application, as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not being called to change the
locale.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getwidth()
function will only work with
.B EUC
locales.
