'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getws 3C "15 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getws, fgetws \- get a wide-character string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
include <widec.h>

\fBwchar_t *\fBgetws\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fIws\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
include <wchar.h>

\fBwchar_t *\fBfgetws\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIws\fR, \fBint\fR \fIn\fR, \fBFILE *restrict\fR \fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getws()
function reads a string of characters from the standard
input stream,
.BR stdin ,
converts these characters to the corresponding
wide-character codes, and writes them to the array pointed to by
.IR ws ,
until a newline character is read, converted and transferred to
.I ws
or
an end-of-file condition is encountered. The wide-character string,
.IR ws ,
is then terminated with a null wide-character code.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fgetws()
function reads characters from the
.IR stream ,
converts them to the corresponding wide-character codes,  and places them in
the
.B wchar_t
array pointed to by
.I ws
until \fIn\fR\(mi1 characters
are read, or until a newline character is read, converted and transferred to
.IR ws ,
or an end-of-file condition is encountered. The wide-character
string,
.IR ws ,
is then terminated with a null wide-character code.
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for
the stream is indeterminate.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR fgetws() " function may mark the "
.B st_atime
field of the file
associated with
.I stream
for update. The
.B st_atime
field will be
marked for update by the first successful execution of
.BR fgetc (3C),
.BR fgets (3C),
.BR fgetwc (3C),
.BR fgetws() ,
.BR fread (3C),
.BR fscanf (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR getchar (3C),
.BR gets (3C),
or
.BR scanf (3C)
using
.I stream
that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to
.BR ungetc "(3C) or"
.BR ungetwc (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B getws()
and
.B fgetws()
return
.IR ws .
If the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator for the
stream is set and
.B fgetws()
returns a null pointer. For
standard-conforming (see
.BR standards (5))
applications, if the
end-of-file indicator for the stream is set,
.B fgetws()
returns a null
pointer whether or not the stream is at end-of-file. If a read error occurs,
the error indicator for the stream is set and
.B fgetws()
returns a null
pointer and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
See
.BR fgetwc (3C)
for the conditions that will cause \fBfgetws()\fR to
fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability\fBfgetws()\fR is Standard.
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ferror (3C),
.BR fgetwc (3C),
.BR fread (3C),
.BR getwc (3C),
.BR putws (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR ungetc (3C),
\fBungetwc\fR(3C)\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
