'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iconv_open 3C "2 Oct 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
iconv_open \- code conversion allocation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <iconv.h>

\fBiconv_t\fR \fBiconv_open\fR(\fBconst char *\fItocode\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfromcode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iconv_open()
function returns a conversion descriptor that
describes a conversion from the codeset specified by the string pointed to
by the \fIfromcode\fR argument to the codeset specified by the string
pointed to by the
.I tocode
argument. For state-dependent encodings, the
conversion descriptor will be in  a codeset-dependent initial shift state,
ready for immediate use with the  \fBiconv\fR(3C) function.
.sp
.LP
Settings of \fIfromcode\fR and
.I tocode
and their permitted
combinations are implementation-dependent.
.sp
.LP
The
.B iconv_open()
function supports the alias of the encoding name
specified in
.I tocode
and
.IR fromcode .
The alias table of the
encoding name is described in the file
.BR /usr/lib/iconv/alias .
See
.BR alias (4).
.sp
.LP
A conversion descriptor remains valid in a process until that process
closes it.
.sp
.LP
For examples using the 
.B iconv_open()
function, see \fBiconv\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion 
.B iconv_open()
returns a conversion
descriptor for use on subsequent calls to
.BR iconv() .
Otherwise,
\fBiconv_open()\fR returns \fB(iconv_t)\fR \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The 
.B iconv_open
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
\fB{OPEN_MAX}\fR files descriptors are currently open in the calling
process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENFILE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Too many files are currently open in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The conversion specified by \fIfromcode\fR and
.I tocode
is not
supported by the implementation.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/lib/iconv/alias
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
alias table file of the encoding name
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR iconv (3C),
.BR iconv_close (3C),
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR alias (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B iconv_open()
function uses \fBmalloc\fR(3C) to allocate space for
internal buffer areas.
.B iconv_open()
may fail if there is insufficient
storage space to accommodate these buffers.
.sp
.LP
Portable applications must assume that conversion descriptors are not valid
after a call to one of the
.B exec
functions (see \fBexec\fR(2)).
