'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH index 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
index, rindex \- string operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <strings.h>

\fBchar *\fBindex\fR(\fBconst char *\fIs\fR, \fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBrindex\fR(\fBconst char *\fIs\fR, \fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B index()
and
.B rindex()
functions operate on null-terminated
strings.
.sp
.LP
The
.B index()
function returns a pointer to the first occurrence of
character
.I c
in string
.IR s .
.sp
.LP
The
.B rindex()
function returns a pointer to the last occurrence of
character
.I c
in string
.IR s .
.sp
.LP
Both
.B index()
and
.B rindex()
return a null pointer if
.IR c
does not occur in the string. The null character terminating a string is
considered to be part of the string.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
On most modern computer systems, you can
.I not
use a null pointer to
indicate a null string.  A null pointer is an error and results in an abort
of the program.  If you wish to indicate a null string, you must use a
pointer that points to an explicit null string.  On some machines and with
some implementations of the C programming language, a null pointer, if
dereferenced, would yield a null string.  Though often used, this practice
is not always portable. Programmers using a null pointer to represent an
empty string should be aware of this portability issue.  Even on machines
where dereferencing a null pointer does not cause an abort of the program,
it does not necessarily yield a null string.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bstring (3C),
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR string (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
