'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH initgroups 3C "22 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
initgroups \- initialize the supplementary group access list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <grp.h>
#include <sys/types.h>

\fBint\fR \fBinitgroups\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR, \fBgid_t\fR \fIbasegid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B initgroups()
function reads the group database to get the group
membership for the user specified by
.IR name ,
and initializes the
supplementary group access list of the calling process (see
.BR getgrnam (3C)
and
.BR getgroups (2)).
The
.I basegid
group ID is
also included in the supplementary group access list. This is typically the
real group ID from the user database.
.sp
.LP
While scanning the group database, if the number of groups, including the
.I basegid
entry, exceeds
.BR NGROUPS_MAX ,
subsequent group entries are
ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B initgroups()
function will fail and not change the supplementary
group access list if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getgroups (2),
.BR getgrnam (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
