'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH isnand 3C "15 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
isnand, isnanf, finite, fpclass, unordered \- determine type of
floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ieeefp.h>

\fBint\fR \fBisnand\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIdsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBisnanf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIfsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfinite\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIdsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfpclass_t\fR \fBfpclass\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIdsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBunordered\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIdsrc1\fR, \fBdouble\fR \fIdsrc2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B isnand()
and
.B isnanf()
functions return
.B TRUE
.RB ( 1 )
if the argument
.I dsrc
or
.I fsrc
is a NaN;  otherwise they return
.B FALSE
.RB ( 0 ).
.sp
.LP
The
.B fpclass()
function returns one of the following classes to which
.I dsrc
belongs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_SNAN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
signaling NaN
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_QNAN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
quiet NaN
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_NINF
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
negative infinity
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_PINF
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
positive infinity
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_NDENORM
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
negative denormalized non-zero
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_PDENORM
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
positive denormalized non-zero
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_NZERO
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
negative zero
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_PZERO
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
positive zero
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_NNORM
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
negative normalized non-zero
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FP_PNORM
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
positive normalized non-zero
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfinite()\fR function returns
.B TRUE
(\fB1\fR) if the argument
.I dsrc
is neither infinity nor NaN; otherwise it returns 
.B FALSE
.RB ( 0 ).
.sp
.LP
The
.B unordered()
function returns
.B TRUE
.RB ( 1 )
if one of its
two arguments is unordered with respect to the other argument.  This is
equivalent to reporting whether either argument is NaN.  If neither argument
is NaN,
.B FALSE
.RB ( 0 )
is returned.
.sp
.LP
None of these functions generates an exception, even for signaling NaNs.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
See DESCRIPTION.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fpgetround (3C),
.BR isnan (3M),
.BR attributes (5)
