'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iswctype 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
iswctype \- test character for specified class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBiswctype\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBwctype_t\fR \fIcharclass\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iswctype()
function determines whether the wide-character code
.I wc
has the character class
.IR charclass ,
returning
.B TRUE
or
.BR FALSE .
The
.B iswctype()
function is defined on
.B WEOF
and
wide-character codes corresponding to the valid character encodings in the
current locale. If the
.I wc
argument is not in the domain of the
function, the result is undefined. If the value of
.I charclass
is invalid
(that is, not obtained by a call to
.BR wctype (3C)
or
.I charclass
is
invalidated by a subsequent call to
.BR setlocale (3C)
that has affected
category
.BR LC_CTYPE ),
the result is indeterminate.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B iswctype()
function returns
.B 0
for
.B FALSE
and non-zero
for
.BR TRUE .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
There are twelve strings that are reserved for the standard character
classes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i) |lw(1.83i)
.
"alnum""alpha""blank"
_
"cntrl""digit""graph"
_
"lower""print""punct"
_
"space""upper""xdigit"
.TE

.sp
.LP
In the table below, the functions in the left column are equivalent to the
functions in the right column.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBiswalnum(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"alnum"\fB))\fR
iswalpha(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"alpha"\fB))\fR
iswcntrl(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"cntrl"\fB))\fR
iswdigit(\fI wc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"digit"\fB))\fR
iswgraph(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"graph"\fB))\fR
iswlower(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"lower"\fB))\fR
iswprint(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"print"\fB))\fR
iswpunct(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fI wc,\fB wctype(\fR"punct"\fB))\fR
iswspace(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"space"\fB))\fR
iswupper(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"upper"\fB))\fR
iswxdigit(\fIwc\fB)\fRiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"xdigit"\fB))\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The call
.sp
.LP
\fBiswctype(\fIwc,\fB wctype(\fR"blank"\fB))\fR
.sp
.LP
does not have an equivalent
.B isw*(\|)
function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iswalpha (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR wctype (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
