'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH killpg 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
killpg \- send signal to a process group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBkillpg\fR(\fBpid_t\fR \fIpgrp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B killpg()
function sends the signal
.I sig
to the process group
.IR pgrp .
See \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) for a list of signals.
.sp
.LP
The real or effective user
.B ID
of the sending process must match the
real or saved set-user
.B ID
of the receiving process, unless the
effective user
.B ID
of the sending process is the privileged user. A
single exception is the signal
.BR SIGCONT ,
which may always be sent to
any descendant of the current process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B killpg()
function will fail and no signal will be sent if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I sig
argument is not a valid signal number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The effective user
.B ID
of the sending process is not privileged user,
and neither its real nor effective user
.B ID
matches the real or saved
set-user
.B ID
of one or more of the target processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
No processes were found in the specified process group.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kill (2),
.BR setpgrp (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
