'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH lckpwdf 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lckpwdf, ulckpwdf \- manipulate shadow password database lock file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shadow.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlckpwdf\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBulckpwdf\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlckpwdf()\fR and \fBulckpwdf()\fR functions enable modification
access to the password databases through the lock file. A process first uses
.B lckpwdf()
to lock the lock file, thereby gaining exclusive rights to
modify the
.B /etc/passwd
or
.B /etc/shadow
password database.  See
.BR passwd (4)
and
.BR shadow (4).
Upon completing modifications, a
process should release the lock on the lock file using
.BR ulckpwdf() .
This mechanism prevents simultaneous modification of the password databases.
The lock file,
.BR /etc/.pwd.lock ,
is used to coordinate modification
access to the password databases
.B /etc/passwd
and
.BR /etc/shadow .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.B lckpwdf()
is successful in locking the file within 15 seconds, it
returns
.BR 0 .
If unsuccessful (for example,
.B /etc/.pwd.lock
is
already locked), it returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.sp
.LP
If
.B ulckpwdf()
is successful in unlocking the file
.BR /etc/.pwd.lock ,
it returns
.BR 0 .
If unsuccessful (for example,
.B /etc/.pwd.lock
is already unlocked), it returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These routines are for internal use only; compatibility is not
guaranteed.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
password database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/shadow
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
shadow password database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/.pwd.lock
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
lock file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getspnam (3C),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR shadow (4),
.BR attributes (5)
