'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH makedev 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
makedev, major, minor \- manage a device number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/mkdev.h>

\fBdev_t\fR \fBmakedev\fR(\fBmajor_t\fR \fImaj\fR, \fBminor_t\fR \fImin\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmajor_t\fR \fBmajor\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fIdevice\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBminor_t\fR \fBminor\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fIdevice\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B makedev()
function returns a formatted device number on success
and
.B NODEV
on failure.  The
.I maj
argument is the major number.
The
.I min
argument is the minor number.  The
.B makedev()
function
can be used to create a device number for input to
.BR mknod (2).
.sp
.LP
The
.B major()
function returns the major number component from
.IR device .
.sp
.LP
The
.B minor()
function returns the minor number component from
.IR device .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B makedev()
returns a formatted device
number. Otherwise,
.B NODEV
is returned and
.B errno
is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B makedev()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
One or both of the arguments
.I maj
and
.I min
is too large, or the
.I device
number created from
.I maj
and
.I min
is
.BR NODEV .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B major()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I device
argument is
.BR NODEV ,
or the major number component of
.I device
is too large.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B minor()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I device
argument is
.BR NODEV .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mknod (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR attributes (5)
