'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mbsinit 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mbsinit \- determine conversion object status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmbsinit\fR(\fBconst mbstate_t *\fIps\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If
.B ps
is not a null pointer, the
.B mbsinit()
function determines
whether the object pointed to by
.B ps
describes an initial conversion
state.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B mbsinit()
function returns non-zero if
.B ps
is a null pointer,
or if the pointed-to object describes an initial conversion state; otherwise, it
returns
.BR 0 .
.sp
.LP
If an
.B mbstate_t
object is altered by any of the functions described as
"restartable", and is then used with a different character sequence, or in the
other conversion direction, or with a different
.B LC_CTYPE
category setting
than on earlier function calls, the behavior is undefined.  See
.BR environ (5).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B mbstate_t
object is used to describe the current conversion state
from a particular character sequence to a wide-character sequence (or vice
versa) under the rules of a particular setting of the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of
the current locale.
.sp
.LP
The initial conversion state corresponds, for a conversion in either direction,
to the beginning of a new character sequence in the initial shift state.  A
zero-valued
.B mbstate_t
object is at least one way to describe an initial
conversion state.  A zero-valued
.B mbstate_t
object can be used to initiate
conversion involving any character sequence, in any
.B LC_CTYPE
category
setting.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mbrlen (3C),
.BR mbrtowc (3C),
.BR mbsrtowcs (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR wcrtomb (3C),
.BR wcsrtombs (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B mbsinit()
function can be used safely in multithreaded applications,
as long as
.BR setlocale "(3C) is not being called to change the locale."
