'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mbsrtowcs 3C "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mbsrtowcs \- convert a character string to a wide-character string
(restartable)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBmbsrtowcs\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBconst char **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mbsrtowcs()
function converts a sequence of characters, beginning
in the conversion state described by the object pointed to by
.IR ps ,
from
the array indirectly pointed to by
.I src
into a sequence of
corresponding wide-characters. If
.I dst
is not a null pointer, the
converted characters are stored into the array pointed to by
.IR dst .
Conversion continues up to and including a terminating null character, which
is also stored.  Conversion stops early in either of the following cases:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When a sequence of bytes is encountered that does not form a valid
character.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When
.I len
codes have been stored into the array pointed to by
.I dst
(and
.I dst
is not a null pointer).
.RE
.sp
.LP
Each conversion takes place as if by a call to the
.BR mbrtowc()
function.
.sp
.LP
If
.I dst
is not a null pointer, the pointer object pointed to by
.I src
is assigned either a null pointer (if conversion stopped due to
reaching a terminating null character) or the address just past the last
character converted (if any).  If conversion stopped due to reaching a
terminating null character, and if
.I dst
is not a null pointer, the
resulting state described is the initial conversion state.
.sp
.LP
If
.I ps
is a null pointer, the
.B mbsrtowcs()
function uses its own
internal
.B mbstate_t
object, which is initialized at program startup to
the initial conversion state.  Otherwise, the
.B mbstate_t
object
pointed to by
.I ps
is used to completely describe the current conversion
state of the associated character sequence. Solaris will behave as if no
function defined in the Solaris Reference Manual calls
.BR mbsrtowcs() .
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this function is affected by the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of
the current locale.  See
.BR environ (5).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the input conversion encounters a sequence of bytes that do not form a
valid character, an encoding error occurs.  In this case, the
.B mbsrtowcs()
function stores the value of the macro
.B EILSEQ
in
.B errno
and returns \fB(size_t)\(mi1\fR; the conversion state is
undefined. Otherwise, it returns the number of characters successfully
converted, not including the terminating null (if any).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mbsrtowcs()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I ps
argument points to an object that contains an invalid
conversion state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EILSEQ
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Invalid character sequence is detected.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSee NOTES below
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mbrtowc (3C),
.BR mbsinit (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If
.I ps
is not a null pointer,
.B mbsrtowcs()
uses the
.B mbstate_t
object pointed to by
.I ps
and the function can be used
safely in multithreaded applications, as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not
being called to change the locale. If
.I ps
is a null pointer,
.B mbsrtowcs()
uses its internal
.B mbstate_t
object and the function
is Unsafe in multithreaded applications.
