'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mq_close 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mq_close \- close a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmq_close\fR(\fBmqd_t\fR \fImqdes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_close()
function removes the association between the message
queue descriptor,
.IR mqdes ,
and its message queue. The results of using
this message queue descriptor after successful return from this
.BR mq_close() ,
and until the return of this message queue descriptor from
a subsequent
.BR mq_open (3C),
are undefined.
.sp
.LP
If the process (or thread) has successfully attached a notification request
to the message queue via this
.IR mqdes ,
this attachment is removed and
the message queue is available for another process to attach for
notification.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B mq_close()
returns
.BR 0 ;
otherwise,
the function returns
.B \(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error
condition.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_close()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I mqdes
argument is an invalid message queue descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B mq_open()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mqueue.h (3HEAD),
.BR mq_notify (3C),
.BR mq_open (3C),
.BR mq_unlink (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set
.B errno
to
.BR ENOSYS .
