'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mq_getattr 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mq_getattr \- get message queue attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmq_getattr\fR(\fBmqd_t\fR \fImqdes\fR, \fBstruct mq_attr *\fImqstat\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.I mqdes
argument specifies a message queue descriptor. The
\fBmq_getattr()\fR function is used to get status information and attributes
of the message queue and the open message queue description associated with
.RI "the message queue descriptor. The results are returned in the" " mq_attr"
structure referenced by the
.I mqstat
argument.
.sp
.LP
Upon return, the following members will have the values associated with the
open message queue description as set when the message queue was opened and
as modified by subsequent
.BR mq_setattr "(3C) calls:"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmq_flags\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
message queue flags
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following attributes of the message queue are returned as set at
message queue creation:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mq_maxmsg
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
maximum number of messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mq_msgsize
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
maximum message size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mq_curmsgs
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
number of messages currently on the queue.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B mq_getattr()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, the function returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_getattr()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I mqdes
argument is not a valid message queue descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B mq_getattr()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR mqueue.h (3HEAD),
.BR mq_open (3C),
.BR mq_send (3C),
.BR mq_setattr (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set \fBerrno\fR to
.BR ENOSYS .
