'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mq_setattr 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mq_setattr \- set/get message queue attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmq_setattr\fR(\fBmqd_t\fR \fImqdes\fR, \fBconst struct mq_attr *\fImqstat\fR,
     \fBstruct mq_attr *\fIomqstat\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_setattr()
function is used to set attributes associated with
the open message queue description referenced by the message queue
descriptor specified by
.IR mqdes .
.sp
.LP
The message queue attributes corresponding to the following members defined
in the
.B mq_attr
structure are set to the specified values upon
successful completion of
.BR mq_setattr() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mq_flags
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The value of this member is either
.B 0
or
.BR O_NONBLOCK.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The values of
.BR mq_maxmsg ,
.BR mq_msgsize ,
and
.B mq_curmsgs
are
ignored by
.BR mq_setattr() .
.sp
.LP
If
.I omqstat
is non-\fINULL\fR,
.B mq_setattr()
stores, in the
location referenced by
.IR omqstat ,
the previous message queue attributes
and the current queue status. These values are the same as would be returned
by a call to
.B mq_getattr()
at that point.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B mq_setattr()
returns
.B 0
and the
attributes of the message queue will have been changed as specified.
Otherwise, the message queue attributes are unchanged, and the function
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_setattr()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I mqdes
argument is not a valid message queue descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B mq_setattr()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR mq_getattr (3C),
.BR mq_open (3C),
.BR mq_receive (3C),
.BR mq_send (3C),
.BR mqueue.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set \fBerrno\fR to
.BR ENOSYS .
