'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mq_unlink 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mq_unlink \- remove a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmq_unlink\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_unlink()
function removes the message queue named by the
pathname
.IR name .
After a successful call to
.B mq_unlink()
with
.IR name ,
a call to \fBmq_open\fR(3C) with \fIname\fR fails if the flag
\fBO_CREAT\fR is not set in
.IR flags .
If one or more processes have the
message queue open when
.B mq_unlink()
is called, destruction of the
message queue is postponed until all references to the message queue have
been closed. Calls to
.BR mq_open (3C)
to re-create the message queue may
fail until the message queue is actually removed. However, the
\fBmq_unlink()\fR call need not block until all references have been closed;
it may return immediately.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B mq_unlink()
returns
.BR 0 ;
otherwise,
the named message queue is not changed by this function call, the function
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B mq_unlink()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Permission is denied to unlink the named message queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The length of the
.I name
string exceeds
.BR PATH_MAX ,
or a pathname
component is longer than
.I NAME_MAX
while
.B _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The named message queue,
.IR name ,
does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
\fBmq_unlink()\fR is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mqueue.h (3HEAD),
.BR mq_close (3C),
.BR mq_open (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set \fBerrno\fR to \fBENOSYS\fR.
