'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nanosleep 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nanosleep \- high resolution sleep
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnanosleep\fR(\fBconst struct timespec *\fIrqtp\fR,
     \fBstruct timespec *\fIrmtp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B nanosleep()
function causes the current thread  to be suspended
from execution until either the time interval specified by the
.IR rqtp
argument has elapsed or a signal is delivered to the calling thread and its
action is to invoke a signal-catching function or to terminate the process.
The suspension time may be longer than requested because the argument value
is rounded up to an integer multiple of the sleep resolution or because of
the scheduling of other activity by the system. But, except for the case of
being interrupted by a signal, the suspension time will not be less than the
time specified by
.IR rqtp ,
as measured by the system clock,
.BR CLOCK_REALTIME .
.sp
.LP
The use of the
.B nanosleep()
function has no effect on the action or
blockage of any signal.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the
.B nanosleep()
function returns because the requested time has
elapsed, its return value is
.BR 0 .
.sp
.LP
If the
.B nanosleep()
function returns because it has been interrupted
by a signal, the function returns a value of \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the interruption. If the
.I rmtp
argument is non-\fINULL\fR, the
\fBtimespec\fR structure referenced by it is updated to contain the amount
of time remaining in the interval (the requested time minus the time
actually slept). If the
.I rmtp
argument is
.IR NULL ,
the remaining
time is not returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.B nanosleep()
fails, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B nanosleep()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B nanosleep()
function was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I rqtp
argument specified a nanosecond value less than zero or
greater than or equal to 1000 million.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B nanosleep()
function is not supported by this implementation.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sleep (3C),
.BR time.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
