'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH opendir 3C "26 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
opendir, fdopendir \- open directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <dirent.h>

\fBDIR *\fBopendir\fR(\fBconst char *\fIdirname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBDIR *\fBfdopendir\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B opendir()
function opens a directory stream corresponding to the
directory named by the
.I dirname
argument.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfdopendir()\fR function opens a directory stream for the directory
file descriptor
.IR fildes .
The directory file descriptor should not be
used or closed following a successful function call, as this might cause
undefined results from future operations on the directory stream obtained
from the call. Use
.BR closedir (3C)
to close a directory stream.
.sp
.LP
The directory stream is positioned at the first entry. If the type
\fBDIR\fR is implemented using a file descriptor, applications will only be
able to open up to a total of {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR} files and directories. A
successful call to any of the
.B exec
functions will close any directory
streams that are open in the calling process.  See
.BR exec (2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B opendir()
and \fBfdopendir()\fR return a
pointer to an object of type
.BR DIR .
Otherwise, a null pointer is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B opendir()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied for the component of the path prefix of
\fIdirname\fR or read permission is denied for
.IR dirname .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR path .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the
.I dirname
argument exceeds {\fBPATH_MAX\fR}, or a
path name component is longer than {\fBNAME_MAX\fR} while
{\fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR} is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of
.I dirname
does not name an existing directory or
\fIdirname\fR is an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of
.I dirname
is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfdopendir()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The file descriptor \fIfildes\fR does not reference a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B opendir()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
There are {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR} file descriptors currently open in the calling
process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result
whose length exceeds
.BR PATH_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENFILE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many files are currently open on the system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B opendir()
and \fBfdopendir()\fR functions should be used in
conjunction with
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR closedir (3C)
and
.BR rewinddir (3C)
to examine the contents of the directory (see the
\fBEXAMPLES\fR section in \fBreaddir\fR(3C)). This method is recommended for
portability.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityT{
\fBopendir()\fR is Standard; \fBfdopendir()\fR is Evolving
T}
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lstat (2),
.BR symlink (2),
.BR closedir (3C),
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR rewinddir (3C),
.BR scandir (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
