'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose 3C "20 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose, posix_spawn_file_actions_addopen \- add
close or open action to spawn file actions object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR(
     \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t *\fIfile_actions\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addopen\fR(
     \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t *restrict\fR \fIfile_actions\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR,
     \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIpath\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoflag\fR, \fBmode_t\fR \fImode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions add or delete a close or open action to a spawn file
actions object.
.sp
.LP
A spawn file actions object is of type \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t\fR
(defined in <\fBspawn.h\fR>) and is used to specify a series of actions to
be performed by a
.BR posix_spawn "(3C) or"
.BR posix_spawn (3C)
operation
to arrive at the set of open file descriptors for the child process given
the set of open file descriptors of the parent.
.sp
.LP
A spawn file actions object, when passed to
.B posix_spawn()
or
.BR posix_spawnp() ,
specifies how the set of open file descriptors in the
calling process is transformed into a set of potentially open file
descriptors for the spawned process. This transformation occurs as though
the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once, in the context
of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new process image), in the
order in which the actions were added to the object.  Additionally, when the
new process image is executed, any file descriptor (from this new set) which
has its
.B FD_CLOEXEC
flag set is closed (see
.BR posix_spawn (3C)).
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose()
function adds a close action
to the object referenced by
.I file_actions
that causes the file
descriptor fildes to be closed (as if \fBclose\fR(\fIfildes\fR) had been
called) when a new process is spawned using this file actions object.
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawn_file_actions_addopen()
function adds an open action
to the object referenced by
.I file_actions
that causes the file named by
path to be opened (as if \fBopen\fR(\fIpath\fR, \fIoflag\fR, \fImode\fR) had
been called, and the returned file descriptor, if not
.IR fildes ,
had been
changed to
.IR fildes )
when a new process is spawned using this file
actions object. If
.I fildes
was already an open file descriptor, it is
closed before the new file is opened.
.sp
.LP
The string described by
.I path
is copied by the
.B posix_spawn_file_actions_addopen()
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The value specified by
.I fildes
is negative or greater than or equal to
{\fBOPEN_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I file_actions
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory exists to add to the spawn file actions object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
It is not considered an error for the
.I fildes
argument passed to these
functions to specify a file descriptor for which the specified operation
could not be performed at the time of the call. Any such error will be
detected when the associated file actions object is later used during a
.B posix_spawn()
or
.B posix_spawnp()
operation.
.sp
.LP
If a
.BR close (2)
operation is specified for a file descriptor that is
not open at the time of the call to
.B posix_spawn()
or
.BR posix_spawnp() ,
the close operation will not cause the
.B posix_spawn()
or
.B posix_spawnp()
operation to fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR posix_spawn (3C),
.BR posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2 (3C),
.BR posix_spawn_file_actions_destroy (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
