'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_spawnattr_destroy 3C "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_spawnattr_destroy, posix_spawnattr_init \- destroy and initialize
spawn attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_destroy\fR(\fBposix_spawnattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_init\fR(\fBposix_spawnattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_destroy()
function destroys a spawn attributes
object. A destroyed
.I attr
attributes object can be reinitialized using
.BR posix_spawnattr_init() .
The results of otherwise referencing the
object after it has been destroyed are undefined. An implementation can
cause
.B posix_spawnattr_destroy()
to set the object referenced by
.I attr
to an invalid value.
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_init()
function initializes a spawn attributes
object
.I attr
with the default value for all of the individual
attributes used by the implementation. Results are undefined if
.B posix_spawnattr_init()
is called specifying an already initialized
.I attr
attributes object.
.sp
.LP
A spawn attributes object is of type
.B posix_spawnattr_t
(defined in
.RB < spawn.h >)
and is used to specify the inheritance of process
attributes across a spawn operation.
.sp
.LP
No attributes other than those defined by IEEE Std 1003.1-200x are
provided.
.sp
.LP
The resulting spawn attributes object (possibly modified by setting
individual attribute values), is used to modify the behavior of
.BR posix_spawn (3C)
or
.BR posix_spawnp (3C).
After a spawn attributes
object has been used to spawn a process by a call to
.B posix_spawn()
or
.BR posix_spawnp() ,
any function affecting the attributes object
(including destruction) will not affect any process that has been spawned in
this way.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_spawnattr_destroy()
and
.B posix_spawnattr_init()
return 0. Otherwise, an error number is
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_init()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the spawn attributes object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_destroy()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR posix_spawn (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getflags (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getpgroup (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedparam (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedpolicy (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getsigdefault (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getsigmask (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
