'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_fadvise 3C "14 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_fadvise \- file advisory information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_fadvise\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fIadvice\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fadvise()
function advises the system on the expected
behavior of the application with respect to the data in the file associated
with the open file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
starting at
.I offset
and
continuing for
.I len
bytes. The specified range need not currently exist
in the file. If
.I len
is zero, all data following offset is specified.
The system may use this information to optimize handling of the specified
data. The
.B posix_fadvise()
function has no effect on the semantics of
other operations on the specified data, although it may affect the
performance of other operations.
.sp
.LP
The advice to be applied to the data is specified by the
.IR advice
parameter and may be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_NORMAL
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application has no advice to give on its behavior with
respect to the specified data. It is the default characteristic if no advice
is given for an open file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_SEQUENTIAL
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data
sequentially from lower offsets to higher offsets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_RANDOM
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data in a
random order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_WILLNEED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data in the
near future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_DONTNEED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects that it will not access the
specified data in the near future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_FADV_NOREUSE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data once
and then not reuse it thereafter.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These values are defined in \fB<fcntl.h>\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_fadvise()
returns zero. Otherwise,
an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fadvise()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I advice
is invalid, or the value of
.I len
is less
than zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
argument is associated with a pipe or FIFO.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fadvise()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit
file offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR posix_madvise (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
