'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np 3C "28 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np, posix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np \- get and
set spawn-sigignore attribute of spawn attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np\fR(
     \fBconst posix_spawnattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBsigset_t *restrict\fR \fIsigignore\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np\fR(
     \fBposix_spawnattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBconst sigset_t *restrict\fR \fIsigignore\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np()
function obtains the value of
the
.I spawn-sigignore
attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np()
function sets the
.I spawn-sigignore
attribute in an initialized attributes object
referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.I spawn-sigignore
attribute represents the set of signals to be
forced to be ignored in the new process image (if
.B POSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGIGN_NP
is set in the spawn-flags attribute) by a
spawn operation. The default value of this attribute is an empty signal
set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np()
returns
0 and stores the value of the
.I spawn-sigignore
attribute of
.IR attr
into the object referenced by the
.I sigignore
parameter.  Otherwise, an
error value is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np()
returns
0. Otherwise, an error value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of the attribute being set is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR posix_spawn (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_destroy (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getflags (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getpgroup (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedparam (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedpolicy (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_setsigdefault (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_setsigmask (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B POSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGIGN_NP
flag and the
.B posix_spawnattr_getsigignore_np()
and
.B posix_spawnattr_setsigignore_np()
functions are non-portable Solaris
extensions to the
.BR posix_spawn (3C)
and \fBposix_spawnp()\fR
interfaces.
