'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_fallocate 3C "14 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_fallocate \- file space control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_fallocate\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fallocate()
function ensures that any required storage for
regular file data starting at \fIoffset\fR and continuing for \fIlen\fR
bytes is allocated on the file system storage media. If
.B posix_fallocate()
returns successfully, subsequent writes to the
specified file data will not fail due to the lack of free space on the file
system storage media.
.sp
.LP
If the \fIoffset\fR+\fIlen\fR is beyond the current file size, then
\fBposix_fallocate()\fR adjusts the file size to \fIoffset\fR+\fIlen\fR.
Otherwise, the file size is not changed.
.sp
.LP
Space allocated with
.B posix_fallocate()
is freed by a successful call
to
.BR creat (2)
or
.BR open (2)
that truncates the size of the file.
Space allocated with
.B posix_fallocate()
may be freed by a successful
call to \fBftruncate\fR(3C) that reduces the file size to a size smaller
than \fIoffset\fR+\fIlen\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_fallocate()
returns zero.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fallocate()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
argument is not a valid file descriptor or references a file
that was opened without write permission.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFBIG
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of \fIoffset\fR+\fIlen\fR is greater than the maximum file
size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A signal was caught during execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I len
argument is less than or equal to zero, or the \fIoffset\fR
argument is less than zero, or the underlying file system does not support
this operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to a file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENODEV
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
argument does not refer to a regular file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There is insufficient free space remaining on the file system storage
media.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
argument is associated with a pipe or FIFO.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_fallocate()
function has a transitional interface for
64-bit file offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR creat (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR ftruncate (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
