'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_spawnattr_getpgroup 3C "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_spawnattr_getpgroup, posix_spawnattr_setpgroup \- get and set
spawn-pgroup attribute of spawn attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_getpgroup\fR(\fBconst posix_spawnattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBpid_t *restrict\fR \fIpgroup\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_setpgroup\fR(\fBposix_spawnattr_t *\fIattr\fR, \fBpid_t\fR \fIpgroup\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_getpgroup()
function obtains the value of the
\fIspawn-pgroup\fR attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_setpgroup()
function sets the
.IR spawn-pgroup
attribute in an initialized attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.I spawn-pgroup
attribute represents the process group to be joined
by the new process image in a spawn operation (if
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETPGROUP\fR is set in the \fIspawn-flags\fR attribute). The
default value of this attribute is zero.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_spawnattr_getpgroup()
returns 0 and
stores the value of the
.I spawn-pgroup
attribute of
.I attr
into the
object referenced by the
.I pgroup
parameter. Otherwise, an error number
is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_spawnattr_setpgroup()
returns 0.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_spawnattr_setpgroup()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of the attribute being set is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR posix_spawn (3C),
posix_spawnattr_getpgroup(3C),
posix_spawnattr_getpgroup(3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedparam (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getschedpolicy (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getsigdefault (3C),
.BR posix_spawnattr_getsigmask (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
