'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH posix_madvise 3C "14 Jul 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
posix_madvise \- memory advisory information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_madvise\fR(\fBvoid *\fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fIadvice\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_madvise()
function advises the system on the expected
behavior of the application with respect to the data in the memory starting
at address
.IR addr ,
and continuing for
.I len
bytes. The system may
use this information to optimize handling of the specified data. The
.B posix_madvise()
function has no effect on the semantics of access to
memory in the specified range, although it may affect the performance of
access.
.sp
.LP
The advice to be applied to the memory range is specified by the
.I advice
parameter and may be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_MADV_NORMAL
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application has no advice to give on its behavior with
respect to the specified range. It is the default characteristic if no
advice is given for a range of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_MADV_SEQUENTIAL
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range
sequentially from lower addresses to higher addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_MADV_RANDOM
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range in a
random order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_MADV_WILLNEED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range in the
near future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POSIX_MADV_DONTNEED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Specifies that the application expects that it will not access the
specified range in the near future.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These values are defined in
.BR <sys/mman.h>
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B posix_madvise()
returns zero. Otherwise,
an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_madvise()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I advice
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Addresses in the range starting at
.I addr
and continuing for
.IR len
bytes are partly or completely outside the range allowed for the address
space of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B posix_madvise()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I len
is zero.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mmap (2),
.BR madvise (3C),
posix_madvise(3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
