'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pset_getloadavg 3C "28 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pset_getloadavg \- get system load averages for a processor set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pset.h>
#include <sys/loadavg.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpset_getloadavg\fR(\fBpsetid_t\fR \fIpset\fR, \fBdouble\fR \fIloadavg\fR[\|], \fBint\fR \fInelem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pset_getloadavg()
function returns the number of processes
assigned to the specified processor set that are in the system run queue,
averaged over various periods of time.  Up to
.I nelem
samples are
retrieved and assigned to successive elements of
.IR loadavg [\|].
The
system imposes a maximum of 3 samples, representing averages over the last
1, 5, and 15 minutes, respectively.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR LOADAVG_1MIN ,
.BR LOADAVG_5MIN ,
and
.BR LOADAVG_15MIN
indices, defined  in
.RB < sys/loadavg.h >,
can be used to extract the data
from the appropriate element of the
.IR loadavg [\|]
array.
.sp
.LP
If pset is
.BR PS_NONE ,
the load average for processes not assigned to a
processor set is returned.
.sp
.LP
If pset is
.BR PS_MYID ,
the load average for the processor set to which
the caller is bound is returned.  If the caller is not bound to a processor
set, the result is the same as if
.B PS_NONE
was specified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the number of samples  actually retrieved is
returned. If the load average was unobtainable or the processor set does not
exist, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pset_getloadavg()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The number of elements specified is less than 0, or an invalid processor
set ID was specified.
.sp
The caller is in a non-global zone, the pools facility is active, and the
specified processor set is not that of the zone's pool.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uptime (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR psrset (1M),
.BR prstat (1M),
.BR pset_bind (2),
.BR pset_create (2),
.BR Kstat (3PERL),
.BR attributes (5)
