'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH psignal 3C "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
psignal, psiginfo \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <siginfo.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBpsignal\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR, \fBconst char *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpsiginfo\fR(\fBsiginfo_t *\fIpinfo\fR, \fBchar *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B psignal()
and
.B psiginfo()
functions produce messages on the
standard error output describing a signal.  The
.I sig
argument is a
signal that may have been  passed as the first argument to a signal handler.
The \fIpinfo\fR argument is a pointer to a \fBsiginfo\fR structure that may
have been passed as the second argument to an enhanced signal handler.  See
.BR sigaction (2).
The argument string
.I s
is printed first, followed
by a colon and a blank, followed by the message and a \fBNEWLINE\fR
character.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Messages printed from these functions are in the native language specified
by the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale category.  See
.BR setlocale (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR perror (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR siginfo.h (3HEAD),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5)
