'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_once 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_once \- initialize dynamic package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]

#include <pthread.h>
\fBpthread_once_t\fR \fIonce_control\fR = \fBPTHREAD_ONCE_INIT\fR;

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_once\fR(\fBpthread_once_t *\fIonce_control\fR,
     \fBvoid (*\fIinit_routine\fR)(\fBvoid\fR));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If any thread in a process with a
.I once_control
parameter makes a call
to
.BR pthread_once() ,
the first call will summon the
.BR init_routine() ,
but subsequent calls will not. The
.I once_control
parameter determines
whether the associated initialization routine has been called. The
.B init_routine()
is complete upon return of
.BR pthread_once() .
.sp
.LP
.B pthread_once()
is not a cancellation point; however, if the function
.B init_routine()
is a cancellation point and is canceled, the effect on
.I once_control
is the same as if
.B pthread_once()
had never been
called.
.sp
.LP
The constant
.B PTHREAD_ONCE_INIT
is defined in the
.BR <pthread.h>
header.
.sp
.LP
If
.I once_control
has automatic storage duration or is not initialized
by
.BR PTHREAD_ONCE_INIT ,
the behavior of
.B pthread_once()
is
undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B pthread_once()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
.I once_control
or
.I init_routine
is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris threads do not offer this functionality.
