'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_attr_getguardsize 3C "23 mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_getguardsize, pthread_attr_setguardsize \- get or set thread
guardsize attribute
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_attr_getguardsize\fR(\fBconst pthread_attr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBsize_t *restrict\fR \fIguardsize\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_attr_setguardsize\fR(\fBpthread_attr_t *\fIattr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIguardsize\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.I guardsize
attribute controls the size of the guard area for the
created thread's stack. The
.I guardsize
attribute provides protection
against overflow of the stack pointer. If a thread's stack is created with
guard protection, the implementation allocates extra memory at the overflow
end of the stack as a buffer against stack overflow of the stack pointer. If
an application overflows into this buffer an error results (possibly in a
\fBSIGSEGV\fR signal being delivered to the thread).
.sp
.LP
The
.I guardsize
attribute is provided to the application for two
reasons:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Overflow protection can potentially result in wasted system resources. An
application that creates a large number of threads, and which knows its
threads will never overflow their stack, can save system resources by
turning off guard areas.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
When threads allocate large data structures on the stack, large guard areas
may be needed to detect stack overflow.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The 
.B pthread_attr_getguardsize()
function gets the
.IR guardsize
attribute in the
.I attr
object. This attribute is returned in the
\fIguardsize\fR parameter.
.sp
.LP
The 
.B pthread_attr_setguardsize()
function sets the
.IR guardsize
attribute in the
.I attr
object. The new value of this attribute is
obtained from the
.I guardsize
parameter. If
.I guardsize
is 
.BR 0 ,
a guard area will not be provided for threads created with
.IR attr .
If
\fIguardsize\fR is greater than
.BR 0 ,
a guard area of at least size
\fIguardsize\fR bytes is provided for each thread created with \fIattr\fR.
.sp
.LP
A conforming implementation is permitted to round up the value contained in
\fIguardsize\fR to a multiple of the configurable system variable
\fBPAGESIZE.\fR If an implementation rounds up the value of \fIguardsize\fR
to a multiple of 
.B PAGESIZE,
a call to
\fBpthread_attr_getguardsize()\fR specifying \fIattr\fR will store in the
\fIguardsize\fR parameter the guard size specified by the previous
\fBpthread_attr_setguardsize()\fR function call.
.sp
.LP
The default value of the
.I guardsize
attribute is 
.BR PAGESIZE
bytes. The actual value of 
.B PAGESIZE
is implementation-dependent and
may not be the same on all implementations.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I stackaddr
attribute has been set (that is, the caller is
.RI "allocating and managing its own thread stacks), the" " guardsize"
attribute is ignored and no protection will be provided by the
implementation. It is the responsibility of the application to manage stack
overflow along with stack allocation and management in this case.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the 
.B pthread_attr_getguardsize()
and
\fBpthread_attr_setguardsize()\fR functions return 
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_attr_getguardsize()
and
.BR pthread_attr_setguardsize()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The attribute
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The parameter
.I guardsize
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The parameter
.I guardsize
contains an invalid value.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBpthread_attr_init\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
.BR standards (5)
