'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling 3C "1 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling, pthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling \- get or
set prioceiling attribute of mutex attribute object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_mutexattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIprioceiling\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling\fR(\fBpthread_mutexattr_t *\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIprioceiling\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling()
and
.B pthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling()
functions, respectively, get and set
the priority ceiling attribute of a mutex attribute object pointed to by
.IR attr ,
which was previously created by the
.BR pthread_mutexattr_init()
function.
.sp
.LP
The
.I prioceiling
attribute contains the priority ceiling of initialized
mutexes. The values of
.I prioceiling
must be within the range of
priorities defined by
.BR SCHED_FIFO .
.sp
.LP
The
.I prioceiling
attribute defines the priority ceiling of initialized
mutexes, which is the minimum priority level at which the critical section
guarded by the mutex is executed. In order to avoid priority inversion, the
priority ceiling of the mutex must be set to a priority higher than or equal
to the highest priority of all the threads that may lock that mutex.
.sp
.LP
The ceiling value should be drawn from the range of priorities for the
.B SCHED_FIFO
policy. When a thread acquires such a mutex, the policy of
the thread at mutex acquisition should match that from which the ceiling value
was derived (\fBSCHED_FIFO\fR, in this case).    If a thread changes its
scheduling policy while holding a ceiling mutex, the behavior of
.B pthread_mutex_lock()
and
.B pthread_mutex_unlock()
on this mutex is
undefined. See
.BR pthread_mutex_lock (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B pthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling()
and
.B pthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling()
functions return
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is
.I NULL
or
.I prioceiling
is
invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling()
and
.B pthread_mutexattr_setprioceiling()
functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
or
.I prioceiling
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The caller does not have the privilege to perform the operation.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_cond_init (3C),
.BR pthread_create (3C),
.BR pthread_mutex_init (3C),
.BR pthread_mutex_lock (3C),
.BR sched_get_priority_min (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
