'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_condattr_getpshared 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_condattr_getpshared, pthread_condattr_setpshared \- get or set
process-shared condition variable attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_getpshared\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_condattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_setpshared\fR(\fBpthread_condattr_t *\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_getpshared()
function obtains the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
The
.B pthread_condattr_setpshared()
function is used to set
the
.I process-shared
attribute in an initialized attributes object
referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.I process-shared
attribute is set to
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
to permit a condition variable to be operated upon by any thread that has
access to the memory where the condition variable is allocated, even if the
condition variable is allocated in memory that is shared by multiple
processes. If the
.I process-shared
attribute is
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE,
the condition variable will only be operated
upon by threads created within the same process as the thread that
initialized the condition variable; if threads of differing processes
attempt to operate on such a condition variable, the behavior is undefined.
The default value of the attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE.
.sp
.LP
Additional attributes, their default values, and the names of the
associated functions to get and set those attribute values are
implementation-dependent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_condattr_setpshared()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_condattr_getpshared()
function returns
.B 0
and stores the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute of
.I attr
into the object referenced by the
.I pshared
parameter.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_getpshared()
and
.B pthread_condattr_setpshared()
functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_setpshared()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The new value specified for the attribute is outside the range of legal
values for that attribute.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_condattr_init (3C),
.BR pthread_create (3C),
.BR pthread_mutex_init (3C),
.BR pthread_cond_init (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
