'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_condattr_init 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_condattr_init, pthread_condattr_destroy \- initialize or destroy
condition variable attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_init\fR(\fBpthread_condattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_destroy\fR(\fBpthread_condattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_init()
function initializes a condition variable
attributes object
.I attr
with the default value for all of the
attributes defined by the implementation.
.sp
.LP
At present, the only attribute available is the scope of condition
variables. The default scope of the attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE .
.sp
.LP
Attempts to initialize previously initialized condition variable attributes
object will leave the storage allocated by the previous initialization
unallocated.
.sp
.LP
After a condition variable attributes object has been used to initialize
one or more condition variables, any function affecting the attributes
object (including destruction) does not affect any previously initialized
condition variables.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_destroy()
function destroys a condition variable
attributes object; the object becomes, in effect, uninitialized. An
implementation may cause
.B pthread_condattr_destroy()
to set the object
referenced by
.I attr
to an invalid value. A destroyed condition variable
attributes object can be re-initialized using
.BR pthread_condattr_init() ;
the results of otherwise referencing the object after it has been destroyed
are undefined.
.sp
.LP
Additional attributes, their default values, and the names of the
associated functions to get and set those attribute values are
implementation-dependent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_condattr_init()
and
\fBpthread_condattr_destroy()\fR functions return
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_init()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the condition variable attributes
object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_condattr_destroy()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_condattr_getpshared (3C),
.BR pthread_condattr_setpshared (3C),
.BR pthread_cond_init (3C),
.BR pthread_create (3C),
.BR pthread_mutex_init (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
