'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_key_delete 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_key_delete \- delete thread-specific data key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_key_delete\fR(\fBpthread_key_t\fR \fIkey\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_key_delete()
function deletes a thread-specific data key
previously returned by
.BR pthread_key_create() .
The thread-specific data
values associated with
.I key
need not be
.I NULL
at the time
.B pthread_key_delete()
is called. It is the responsibility of the
application to free any application storage or perform any cleanup actions
for data structures related to the deleted key or associated thread-specific
data in any threads; this cleanup can be done either before or after
.B pthread_key_delete()
is called. Any attempt to use
.I key
following
the call to
.B pthread_key_delete()
results in undefined behaviour.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_key_delete()
function is callable from within destructor
functions. No destructor functions will be invoked by
.BR pthread_key_delete() .
Any destructor function that may have been
associated with
.I key
will no longer be called upon thread exit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_key_delete()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_key_delete()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I key
value is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_key_delete()
function will not return an error code of
.BR EINTR .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_key_create (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
