'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared, pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared \- get or set
process-shared attribute of read-write lock attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_rwlockattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlockattr_setpshared\fR(\fBpthread_rwlockattr_t *\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.I process-shared
attribute is set to
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
to permit a read-write lock to be operated upon by any thread that has
access to the memory where the read-write lock is allocated,  even if the
read-write lock is allocated in memory that is shared by multiple processes.
If the
.I process-shared
attribute is
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE,
the
read-write lock will only be operated upon by threads created within the
same process as the thread that initialised the read-write lock; if threads
of differing processes attempt to operate on such a read-write lock, the
behaviour is undefined. The default value of the
.I process-shared
attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()
function obtains the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute from the initialised attributes object
referenced by
.IR attr .
The
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()
function is used to set the
.I process-shared
attribute in an initialised
attributes object referenced by attr.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()
returns
.B 0
and stores the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute
of
.I attr
into the object referenced by the
.I pshared
parameter.
Otherwise an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()
and
.B pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
or
.I pshared
is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_rwlock_init (3C),
.BR pthread_rwlock_rdlock (3C),
.BR pthread_rwlock_unlock (3C),
.BR pthread_rwlock_wrlock (3C),
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_init (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
