'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_barrierattr_getpshared 3C "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_barrierattr_getpshared, pthread_barrierattr_setpshared \- get and
set process-shared attribute of barrier attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_barrierattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR(\fBpthread_barrierattr_t *\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_barrierattr_getpshared()
function obtains the value of
the
.I process-shared
attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
The
.B pthread_barrierattr_setpshared()
function sets the
.I process-shared
attribute in an initialized attributes object
referenced by
.IR attr .
.sp
.LP
The
.I process-shared
attribute is set to
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
to permit a barrier to be operated upon by any thread that has access to the
memory where the barrier is allocated. If the
.I process-shared
attribute
is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE ,
the barrier will only be operated upon by
threads created within the same process as the thread that initialized the
barrier. If threads of different processes attempt to operate on such a
barrier, the behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
The default value of the attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE .
Both
constants
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
and
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE
are
defined in
.RB < pthread.h >.
.sp
.LP
No barrier attributes other than the
.I process-shared
attribute are
provided.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B pthread_barrierattr_getpshared()
function returns 0 and stores the value of the
.IR process-shared
attribute of
.I attr
into the object referenced by the
.IR pshared
parameter. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B pthread_barrierattr_setpshared()
function returns 0. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_barrierattr_setpshared()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The new value specified for the
.I process-shared
attribute is not one
of the legal values
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
or
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_barrier_init (3C),
.BR pthread_barrierattr_destroy (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
