'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_getspecific 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_getspecific, pthread_setspecific \- manage thread-specific data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_setspecific\fR(\fBpthread_key_t\fR \fIkey\fR, \fBconst void *\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBpthread_getspecific\fR(\fBpthread_key_t\fR \fIkey\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_setspecific()
function associates a thread-specific
.I value
with a
.I key
obtained by way of a previous call to
.BR pthread_key_create() .
Different threads may bind different values to
the same key. These values are typically pointers to blocks of dynamically
allocated memory that have been reserved for use by the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_getspecific()
function returns the value currently bound
to the specified
.I key
on behalf of the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
The effect of calling
.B pthread_setspecific()
or
.B pthread_getspecific()
with a
.I key
value not obtained from
.B pthread_key_create()
or after
.I key
has been deleted with
.B pthread_key_delete()
is undefined.
.sp
.LP
Both \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR and \fBpthread_getspecific()\fR may be
called from a thread-specific data destructor function. However, calling
.B pthread_setspecific()
from a destructor may result in lost storage or
infinite loops.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_getspecific()
function returns the thread-specific data
value associated with the given
.IR key .
If no thread-specific data value
is associated with
.IR key ,
then the value
.I NULL
is returned.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B pthread_setspecific()
function
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_setspecific()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory exists to associate the value with the key.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_setspecific()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The key value is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_getspecific()
function does not  return errors.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_key_create (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
