'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_cancel 3C "2 Nov 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_cancel \- cancel execution of a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_cancel\fR(\fBpthread_t\fR \fItarget_thread\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_cancel()
function requests that
.I target_thread
be
canceled.
.sp
.LP
By default, cancellation is deferred until
.I target_thread
reaches a
cancellation point. See
.BR cancellation (5).
.sp
.LP
Cancellation cleanup handlers for
.I target_thread
are called when the
cancellation is acted on. Upon return of the last cancellation cleanup
handler, the thread-specific data destructor functions are called for
.IR target_thread .
\fItarget_thread\fR is terminated when the last
destructor function returns.
.sp
.LP
A thread acting on a cancellation request runs with all signals blocked.
All thread termination functions, including cancellation cleanup handlers
and thread-specific data destructor functions, are called with all signals
blocked.
.sp
.LP
The cancellation processing in
.I target_thread
runs asynchronously
with respect to the calling thread returning from
.BR pthread_cancel() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B pthread_cancel()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_cancel()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
No thread was found with an
.B ID
corresponding to that specified by the
given thread
.B ID,
.IR target_thread .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_cleanup_pop (3C),
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3C),
.BR pthread_cond_wait (3C),
.BR pthread_cond_timedwait (3C),
.BR pthread_exit (3C),
.BR pthread_join (3C),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3C),
.BR pthread_setcanceltype (3C),
.BR pthread_testcancel (3C),
.BR setjmp (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR cancellation (5),
.BR condition (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR cancellation (5)
for a discussion of cancellation concepts.
