'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pthread_mutexattr_init 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_mutexattr_init, pthread_mutexattr_destroy \- initialize or destroy
mutex attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_init\fR(\fBpthread_mutexattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_destroy\fR(\fBpthread_mutexattr_t *\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_init()
function initializes a mutex attributes
object
.I attr
with the default value for all of the attributes defined
by the implementation.
.sp
.LP
The effect of initializing an already initialized mutex  attributes object
is undefined.
.sp
.LP
After a mutex attributes object has been used to initialize one or more
mutexes, any function affecting the attributes object (including
destruction) does not affect any previously initialized mutexes.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_destroy()
function destroys a mutex attributes
object; the object becomes, in effect, uninitialized. An implementation may
cause
.B pthread_mutexattr_destroy()
to set the object referenced by
\fIattr\fR to an invalid value. A destroyed mutex attributes object can be
re-initialized using
.BR pthread_mutexattr_init() ;
the results of
otherwise referencing the object after it has been  destroyed are
undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B pthread_mutexattr_init()
and
\fBpthread_mutexattr_destroy()\fR return
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number
is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_init()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the mutex attributes object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pthread_mutexattr_destroy()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value specified by
.I attr
is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_cond_init (3C),
.BR pthread_create (3C),
.BR pthread_mutex_init (3C),
.BR pthread_mutexattr_settype (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
