'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH putenv 3C "7 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
putenv \- change or add value to environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBputenv\fR(\fBchar *\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B putenv()
function makes the value of the environment variable
.I name
equal to
.I value
by altering an existing variable or creating
a new one. In either case, the string pointed to by
.I string
becomes
part of the environment, so altering the string will change the
environment.
.sp
.LP
The
.I string
argument points to a string of the form
\fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR. The space used by \fIstring\fR is no longer
used once a new string-defining
.I name
is passed to
.BR putenv() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B putenv()
function uses
.BR malloc "(3C) to enlarge the"
environment.
.sp
.LP
After
.B putenv()
is called, environment variables are not in
alphabetical order.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B putenv()
returns 0. Otherwise, it returns
a non-zero value and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B putenv()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory was available.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B putenv()
function can be safely called from multithreaded
programs. Caution must be exercised when using this function and
.BR getenv (3C)
in multithreaded programs. These functions examine and
modify the environment list, which is shared by all threads in a program.
The system prevents the list from being accessed simultaneously by two
different threads.  It does not, however, prevent two threads from
successively accessing the environment list using
.B putenv()
or
.BR getenv() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR getenv (3C),
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The
.I string
argument should not be an automatic variable.  It should
be declared static if it is declared within a function because it cannot be
automatically declared. A potential error is to call
.B putenv()
with a
pointer to an automatic variable as the argument and to then exit the
calling function while
.I string
is still part of the environment.
