'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH putpwent 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
putpwent \- write password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pwd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBputpwent\fR(\fBconst struct passwd *\fIp\fR, \fBFILE *\fIf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B putpwent()
function is the inverse of
.BR getpwent() .
See
.BR getpwnam (3C).
Given a pointer to a
.B passwd
structure created by
.BR getpwent() ,
.BR getpwuid() ,
or
.BR getpwnam() ,
.B putpwent()
writes a line on the stream
.I f
that matches the format of
.BR /etc/passwd .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B putpwent()
function returns a non-zero value if an error was
detected during its operation. Otherwise, it returns
.BR 0 .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B putpwent()
function is of limited utility, since most password
files are maintained as Network Information Service (NIS) files that cannot
be updated with this function. For this reason, the use of this function is
discouraged. If used at all, it should be used with
.BR putspent (3C)
to
update the shadow file.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR putspent (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
