'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH putspent 3C "23 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
putspent \- write shadow password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shadow.h>

\fBint\fR \fBputspent\fR(\fBconst struct spwd *\fIp\fR, \fBFILE *\fIfp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B putspent()
function is the inverse of
.BR getspent() .
See
.BR getspnam (3C).
Given a pointer to a
.B spwd
structure created by
.B getspent()
or
.BR getspnam() ,
.B putspent()
writes a line on the
stream
.I fp
that matches the format of
.BR /etc/shadow .
.sp
.LP
The
.B spwd
structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBchar           *sp_namp;
char           *sp_pwdp;
int            sp_lstchg;
int            sp_min;
int            sp_max;
int            sp_warn;
int            sp_inact;
int            sp_expire;
unsigned int   sp_flag;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the
.BR sp_min ,
.BR sp_max ,
.BR sp_lstchg ,
.BR sp_warn ,
.BR sp_inact ,
or
.B sp_expire
member of the
.B spwd
structure is
\(mi1, or if \fBsp_flag\fR is 0, the corresponding 
.B /etc/shadow
field
is cleared.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B putspent()
function returns a non-zero value if an error was
detected during its operation. Otherwise, it returns
.BR 0 .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Since this function is for internal use only, compatibility is not
guaranteed. For this reason, its use is discouraged. If used at all, if
should be used with
.BR putpwent (3C)
to update the password file.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getpwnam (3C),
.BR getspnam (3C),
.BR putpwent (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
