'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T. Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH raise 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
raise \- send a signal to the executing thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBraise\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B raise()
function sends the signal
.I sig
to the executing
thread. If a signal handler is called, the raise function does not return
until after the signal handler returns.
.sp
.LP
The effect of the raise function is equivalent to calling:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See the \fBpthread_kill\fR(3C) manual page for a detailed list of failure
conditions and the \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) manual page for a list of
signals.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pthread_kill (3C),
.BR pthread_self (3C),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
