'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH re_comp 3C "26 Feb 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
re_comp, re_exec \- compile and execute regular expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <re_comp.h>

\fBchar *\fBre_comp\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBre_exec\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B re_comp()
function converts a regular expression string (RE) into
an internal form suitable for pattern matching.  The \fBre_exec()\fR
function compares the string pointed to by the
.I string
argument with
the last regular expression passed to
.BR re_comp() .
.sp
.LP
If
.B re_comp()
is called with a null pointer argument, the current
regular expression remains unchanged.
.sp
.LP
Strings passed to both
.B re_comp()
and
.B re_exec()
must be
terminated by a null byte, and may include
.B NEWLINE
characters.
.sp
.LP
The
.B re_comp()
and
.B re_exec()
functions support \fIsimple regular
expressions\fR, which are defined on the
.BR regexp (5)
manual page. The
regular expressions of the form \fB\e{\fRm\fB\e}\fR, \fB\e{\fRm,\fB\e}\fR,
or \fB\e{\fRm,n\fB\e}\fR are not supported.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B re_comp()
function returns a null pointer when the string pointed
to by the
.I string
argument is successfully converted.  Otherwise, a
pointer to one of the following error message strings is returned:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
No previous regular expression
Regular expression too long
unmatched \e\|(
missing ]
too many \e\|(\|\e\|) pairs
unmatched \e\|)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B re_exec()
returns
.B 1
if
.IR string
.RB "matches the last compiled regular expression.  Otherwise," " re_exec()"
returns
.B 0
if
.I string
fails to match the last compiled regular
expression, and \fB\(mi1\fR if the compiled regular expression is invalid
(indicating an internal error).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For portability to implementations conforming to X/Open standards prior to
SUS, \fBregcomp\fR(3C) and \fBregexec\fR(3C) are preferred to these
functions. See
.BR standards (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR grep (1),
.BR regcmp (1),
.BR regcmp (3C),
.BR regcomp (3C),
.BR regexec (3C),
.BR regexpr (3GEN),
.BR regexp (5),
.BR standards (5)
