'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH readdir 3C "26 Jun 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
readdir, readdir_r \- read directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <dirent.h>

\fBstruct dirent *\fBreaddir\fR(\fBDIR *\fIdirp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct dirent *\fBreaddir_r\fR(\fBDIR *\fIdirp\fR, \fBstruct dirent *\fIentry\fR);
.fi

.SS "Standard conforming"
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-D_POSIX_PTHREAD_SEMANTICS\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]

\fBint\fR \fBreaddir_r\fR(\fBDIR *restrict\fR \fIdirp\fR, \fBstruct dirent *restrict\fR \fIentry\fR,
     \fBstruct dirent **restrict\fR \fIresult\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The type
.BR DIR ,
which is defined in the header <\fBdirent.h\fR>,
represents a
.IR "directory stream" ,
which is an ordered sequence of all the
directory entries in a particular directory. Directory entries represent
files. Files can be removed from a directory or added to a directory
asynchronously to the operation of
.B readdir()
and
.BR readdir_r() .
.SS "\fBreaddir()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function returns a pointer to a structure representing
the directory entry at the current position in the directory stream
specified by the argument
.IR dirp ,
and positions the directory stream at
the next entry. It returns a null pointer upon reaching the end of the
directory stream. The structure
.B dirent
defined by the
.BR <dirent.h>
header describes a directory entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function will not return directory entries containing
empty names. If entries for . (dot) or .. (dot-dot) exist, one entry will be
returned for dot and one entry will be returned for dot-dot; otherwise they
will not be returned.
.sp
.LP
The pointer returned by
.B readdir()
points to data that can be
overwritten by another call to
.B readdir()
on the same directory stream.
These data are not overwritten by another call to
.B readdir()
on a
different directory stream.
.sp
.LP
If a file is removed from or added to the directory after the most recent
call to
.BR opendir "(3C) or"
.BR rewinddir (3C),
whether a subsequent call
to
.B readdir()
returns an entry for that file is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function can buffer several directory entries per
actual read operation. It marks for update the
.B st_atime
field of the
directory each time the directory is actually read.
.sp
.LP
After a call to
.BR fork (2),
either the parent or child (but not both)
can continue processing the directory stream using
.BR readdir() ,
\fBrewinddir()\fR or \fBseekdir\fR(3C). If both the parent and child
processes use these functions, the result is undefined.
.sp
.LP
If the entry names a symbolic link, the value of the
.B d_ino
member is
unspecified.
.SS "\fBreaddir_r()\fR"
.sp
.LP
Unless the end of the directory stream has been reached or an error
occurred, the
.B readdir_r()
function initializes the
.BR dirent
structure referenced by
.B entry
to represent the directory entry at the
current position in the directory stream referred to by
.IR dirp ,
and
positions the directory stream at the next entry.
.sp
.LP
The caller must allocate storage pointed to by
.I entry
to be large
enough for a
.B dirent
structure with an array of
.BR "char d_name"
member containing at least
.B NAME_MAX
(that is, \fBpathconf(directory,
_PC_NAME_MAX\fR)) plus one elements. (\fB_PC_NAME_MAX\fR is defined in
<\fBunistd.h\fR>.)
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir_r()
function will not return directory entries containing
empty names. It is unspecified whether entries are returned for . (dot) or
\&.. (dot-dot).
.sp
.LP
If a file is removed from or added to the directory after the most recent
call to
.B opendir()
or
.BR rewinddir() ,
whether a subsequent call to
\fBreaddir_r()\fR returns an entry for that file is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir_r()
function can buffer several directory entries per
actual read operation. It marks for update the
.B st_atime
field of the
directory each time the directory is actually read.
.sp
.LP
The standard-conforming version (see
.BR standards (5))
of the
\fBreaddir_r()\fR function performs all of the actions described above and
sets the pointer pointed to by
.IR result .
If a directory entry is
.RI "returned, the pointer will be set to the same value as the" " entry"
argument; otherwise, it will be set to
.IR NULL .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B readdir()
and the default
\fBreaddir_r()\fR return a pointer to an object of type
.BR "struct dirent" .
When an error is encountered, a null pointer is returned and
.B errno
is
set to indicate the error. When the end of the directory is encountered, a
null pointer is returned and
.B errno
is not changed.
.sp
.LP
The standard-conforming
.B readdir_r()
returns
.B 0
if the end of
the directory is encountered or a directory entry is stored in the structure
referenced by
.IR entry .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to
indicate the failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
and
.B readdir_r()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
One of the values in the structure to be returned cannot be represented
correctly.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
and
.B readdir_r()
functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I dirp
argument does not refer to an open directory stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The current position of the directory stream is invalid.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
and
.B readdir_r()
functions should be used in
conjunction with
.BR opendir() ,
.BR closedir() ,
and
.B rewinddir()
to
examine the contents of the directory.  Since
.B readdir()
and the
default
.B readdir_r()
return a null pointer both at the end of the
directory and on error, an application wanting to check for error situations
should set
.B errno
to 0 before calling either of these functions. If
\fBerrno\fR is set to non-zero on return, an error occurred.
.sp
.LP
It is safe to use
.B readdir()
in a threaded application, so long as
only one thread reads from the directory stream at any given time. The
\fBreaddir()\fR function is generally preferred over the \fBreaddir_r()\fR
function.
.sp
.LP
The standard-conforming
.B readdir_r()
returns the error number if an
error occurred. It returns 0 on success (including reaching the end of the
directory stream).
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
and
.B readdir_r()
functions have transitional
interfaces for 64-bit file offsets.  See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Search the current directory for the entry \fIname\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following sample program will search the current directory for each of
the arguments supplied on the command line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <dirent.h>
#include <errno.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <strings.h>

static void lookup(const char *arg)
{
        DIR *dirp;
        struct dirent *dp;

        if ((dirp = opendir(".")) == NULL) {
                perror("couldn't open '.'");
                return;
        }

        do {
                errno = 0;
                if ((dp = readdir(dirp)) != NULL) {
                        if (strcmp(dp->d_name, arg) != 0)
                                continue;

                        (void) printf("found %s\en", arg);
                        (void) closedir(dirp);
                        return;
                }
        } while (dp != NULL);

        if (errno != 0)
                perror("error reading directory");
        else
                (void) printf("failed to find %s\en", arg);
        (void) closedir(dirp);
        return;
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
        int i;
        for (i = 1; i < argc; i++)
                lookup(argv[i]);
        return (0);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function is Unsafe. The
.B readdir_r()
function is
Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfork\fR(2), \fBlstat\fR(2),
.BR symlink (2),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR closedir (3C),
.BR opendir (3C),
.BR rewinddir (3C),
.BR scandir (3C),
.BR seekdir (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR lf64 (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded programs, see the \fBMULTITHREADED
APPLICATIONS\fR section of
.BR Intro (3).
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.4 and earlier releases provided a
.B readdir_r()
interface as
specified in POSIX.1c Draft 6. The final POSIX.1c standard changed the
interface as described above. Support for the Draft 6 interface is provided
for compatibility only and might not be supported in future releases. New
applications and libraries should use the standard-conforming interface.
.sp
.LP
For POSIX.1c-conforming applications, the \fB_POSIX_PTHREAD_SEMANTICS\fR
and
.B _REENTRANT
flags are automatically turned on by defining the
\fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE\fR flag with a value >= 199506L.
