'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH realpath 3C "9 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
realpath \- resolve pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBchar *\fBrealpath\fR(\fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIfile_name\fR,
     \fBchar *restrict\fR \fIresolved_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B realpath()
function derives, from the pathname pointed to by
.IR file_name ,
an absolute pathname that names the same file, whose
resolution does not involve "\fB\&.\fR", "\fB\&..\fR", or symbolic links.
The generated pathname is stored as a null-terminated string, up to a
maximum of {\fBPATH_MAX\fR} bytes (defined in
.BR limits.h (3HEAD)),
in the
buffer pointed to by
.IR resolved_name .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,
.B realpath()
returns a pointer to the
resolved name.  Otherwise,
.B realpath()
returns a null pointer and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error, and the contents of the buffer pointed to
by
.I resolved_name
are left in an indeterminate state.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B realpath()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Read or search permission was denied for a component of
.IR file_name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Either the
.I file_name
or
.I resolved_name
argument is a null
pointer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An error occurred while reading from the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR file_name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.I file_name
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The \fIfile_name\fR argument is longer than {\fBPATH_MAX\fR} or a pathname
component is longer than {\fBNAME_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of
.I file_name
does not name an existing file or
.I file_name
points to an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B realpath()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result
whose length exceeds {\fBPATH_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B realpath()
function operates on null-terminated strings.
.sp
.LP
Execute permission is required for all the directories in the given and the
resolved path.
.sp
.LP
The
.B realpath()
function might fail to return to the current directory
if an error occurs.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getcwd (3C),
.BR limits.h (3HEAD),
.BR sysconf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
