'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH reboot 3C "22 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot system or halt processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/reboot.h>

\fBint\fR \fBreboot\fR(\fBint\fR \fIhowto\fR, \fBchar *\fIbootargs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B reboot()
function reboots the system.  The
.I howto
argument
specifies the behavior of the system while rebooting and is a mask
constructed by a bitwise-inclusive-OR of flags from the following list:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RB_AUTOBOOT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The machine is rebooted from the root filesystem on the default boot
device. This is the default behavior. See
.BR boot (1M)
and
.BR kernel (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RB_HALT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place. This option should
be used with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RB_ASKNAME
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Interpreted by the bootstrap program and kernel, causing the user to be
asked for pathnames during the bootstrap.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RB_DUMP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The system is forced to panic immediately without any further processing
and a crash dump is written to the dump device (see
.BR dumpadm (1M))
before rebooting.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Any other
.I howto
argument causes the kernel file to boot.
.sp
.LP
The interpretation of the
.I bootargs
argument is platform-dependent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B reboot()
never returns.  Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B reboot()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (1M),
.BR boot (1M),
.BR dumpadm (1M),
.BR halt (1M),
.BR init (1M),
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR reboot (1M),
.BR uadmin (2)
