'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH remove 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
remove \- remove file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBremove\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B remove()
function causes the file or empty directory whose name
is the string pointed to by
.I path
to be no longer accessible by that
name. A subsequent attempt to open that file using that name will fail,
unless the file is created anew.
.sp
.LP
For files,
.B remove()
is identical to
.BR unlink() .
For directories,
.B remove()
is identical to
.BR rmdir() .
.sp
.LP
See
.BR rmdir (2)
and
.BR unlink (2)
for a detailed list of failure
conditions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B remove()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate an error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
