'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scandir 3C "4 May 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scandir, alphasort \- scan a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <dirent.h>

\fBint\fR \fBscandir\fR(\fBconst char *\fIdirname\fR, \fBstruct dirent *\fR(*\fInamelist\fR[]),
     \fBint\fR (*\fIselect\fR)(const struct dirent *),
     \fBint\fR (*\fIdcomp\fR)(\fBconst struct dirent  **\fR,
     \fBconst struct dirent **\fR));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBalphasort\fR(\fBconst struct dirent **\fId1\fR,
     \fBconst struct dirent **\fId2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scandir()
function reads the directory
.I dirname
using
.BR readdir (3C)
and builds an array of pointers to directory entries using
.BR malloc (3C).
The
.I namelist
argument is a pointer to an array of
structure pointers. The
.I select
argument is a pointer to a routine that
is called with a pointer to a directory entry and returns a non-zero value
if the directory entry is included in the array. If this pointer is
.IR NULL ,
.RI "then all the directory entries are included. The" " dcomp"
argument is a pointer to a routine that is passed to
.BR qsort "(3C), which"
sorts the completed array. If this pointer is
.IR NULL ,
the array is not
sorted.
.sp
.LP
The
.B alphasort()
function can be used as the
.IR dcomp ()
function
parameter for the
.B scandir()
function to sort the directory entries
into alphabetical order, as if by the \fBstrcoll\fR(3C) function. Its
arguments are the two directory entries to compare.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B scandir()
function returns the number of entries in the array and
a pointer to the array through the
.I namelist
argument. When an error is
encountered,
.B scandir()
returns -1 and
.B errno
is set to indicate
the error.
.sp
.LP
The
.B alphasort()
function returns an integer greater than, equal to,
or less than 0 if the directory entry name pointed to by
.I d1
is greater
.RI "than, equal to, or less than the directory entry name pointed to by" " d2"
when both are interpreted as appropriate to the current locale. There is no
return value reserved to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B scandir()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The number of directory entries exceeds the number that can be represented
by an
.BR int .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B scandir()
and
.B alphasort()
functions have transitional
interfaces for 64-bit file offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B scandir()
function is Unsafe. The
.B alphasort()
function is
Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR qsort (3C),
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR strcoll (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR lf64 (5)
