'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_unlink 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_unlink \- remove a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_unlink\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_unlink()
function removes the semaphore named by the string
.IR name .
If the semaphore named by
.I name
is currently referenced by
other processes, then
.B sem_unlink()
has no effect on the state of the
semaphore. If one or more processes have the semaphore open when
.B sem_unlink()
is called, destruction of the semaphore is postponed
until all references to the semaphore have been destroyed by calls to
.BR sem_close (3C),
.BR _Exit (2),
or one of the
.B exec
functions (see
.BR exec (2))
\&. Calls to \fBsem_open\fR(3C) to re-create or re-connect to
the semaphore refer to a new semaphore after
.B sem_unlink()
is called.
The
.B sem_unlink()
call does not block until all references have been
destroyed; it returns immediately.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B sem_unlink()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
the semaphore is not changed and the function returns a value of
.B
\(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_unlink()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Permission is denied to unlink the named semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The length of
.I name
string exceeds
.IR PATH_MAX ,
or a pathname
component is longer than
.I NAME_MAX
while
.B _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The named semaphore does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The
.B sem_unlink()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR exit (2),
.BR sem_close (3C),
.BR sem_open (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set
.B errno
to
.BR ENOSYS .
