'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_timedwait 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_timedwait, sem_reltimedwait_np \- lock a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>
#include <time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_timedwait\fR(\fBsem_t *restrict\fR \fIsem\fR,
     \fBconst struct timespec *restrict\fR \fIabs_timeout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsem_reltimedwait_np\fR(\fBsem_t *restrict\fR \fIsem\fR,
     \fBconst struct timespec *restrict\fR \fIrel_timeout\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_timedwait()
function locks the semaphore referenced by
.I sem
as in the \fBsem_wait\fR(3C) function. However, if the semaphore
cannot be locked without waiting for another process or thread to unlock the
semaphore by performing a \fBsem_post\fR(3C) function, this wait is
terminated when the specified timeout expires.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_reltimedwait_np()
function is identical to the
.B sem_timedwait()
function, except that the timeout is specified as a
relative time interval.
.sp
.LP
For
.BR sem_timedwait() ,
the timeout expires when the absolute time
specified by
.I abs_timeout
passes, as measured by the
.B CLOCK_REALTIME
clock (that is, when the value of that clock equals or
exceeds
.IR abs_timeout ),
or if the absolute time specified by
.I abs_timeout
has already been passed at the time of the call.
.sp
.LP
For
.BR sem_reltimedwait_np() ,
the timeout expires when the time interval
specified by
.I rel_timeout
passes, as measured by the
.B CLOCK_REALTIME
clock, or if the time interval specified by
.I rel_timeout
is negative at the time of the call.
.sp
.LP
The resolution of the timeout is the resolution of the
.BR CLOCK_REALTIME
clock. The
.B timespec
data type is defined as a structure in the
<\fBtime.h\fR> header.
.sp
.LP
Under no circumstance does the function fail with a timeout if the
semaphore can be locked immediately. The validity of the \fIabs_timeout\fR
need not be checked if the semaphore can be locked immediately.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_timedwait()
and
.B sem_reltimedwait_np()
functions return
0 if the calling process successfully performed the semaphore lock operation
on the semaphore designated by
.IR sem .
If the call was unsuccessful, the
state of the semaphore is be unchanged and the function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_timedwait()
and
.B sem_reltimedwait_np()
functions will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.I sem
argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The process or thread would have blocked, and the timeout parameter
specified a nanoseconds field value less than zero or greater than or equal
to 1,000 million.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The semaphore could not be locked before the specified timeout expired.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_timedwait()
and
.B sem_reltimedwait_np()
functions may
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDEADLK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A deadlock condition was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A signal interrupted this function.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommmitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For
.BR sem_timedwait() ,
see
.BR standards (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR time (2),
\fBsem_post\fR(3C), \fBsem_trywait\fR(3C)\fBsem_wait\fR(3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
