'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_open 3C "9 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_open \- initialize/open a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBsem_t *\fBsem_open\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoflag\fR,
     \fB/* unsigned long\fR \fImode\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIvalue\fR */ .\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_open()
function establishes a connection between a named
semaphore and a process (or LWP or thread). Following a call to
\fBsem_open()\fR with semaphore name
.IR name ,
the process may reference
the semaphore associated with
.I name
using the address returned from the
call. This semaphore may be used in subsequent calls to \fBsem_wait\fR(3C),
.BR sem_trywait (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
and
.BR sem_close "(3C). The"
semaphore remains usable by this process until the semaphore is closed by a
successful call to
.BR sem_close (3C),
.BR _Exit (2),
or one of the
\fBexec\fR functions.
.sp
.LP
The \fIoflag\fR argument controls whether the semaphore is created or
merely accessed by the call to
.BR sem_open() .
The following flag bits may
be set in
.IR oflag :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B O_CREAT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This flag is used to create a semaphore if it does not already exist. If
\fBO_CREAT\fR is set and the semaphore already exists, then \fBO_CREAT\fR
has no effect, except as noted under
.B O_EXCL.
Otherwise,
\fBsem_open()\fR creates a named semaphore. The \fBO_CREAT\fR flag requires
a third and a fourth argument:
.IR mode ,
which is of type
.BR mode_t ,
and
.IR value ,
which is of type
.BR "unsigned int" .
The semaphore is
created with an initial value of
.IR value .
Valid initial values for
semaphores are less than or equal to
.BR SEM_VALUE_MAX.
.sp
The user
.B ID
of the semaphore is set to the effective user
.B ID
of
the process; the group
.B ID
of the semaphore is set to a system default
group
.B ID
or to the effective group
.B ID
of the process. The
permission bits of the semaphore are set to the value of the
.IR mode
argument except those set in the file mode creation mask of the process (see
.BR umask (2)).
When bits in
.I mode
other than the file permission bits
are specified, the effect is unspecified.
.sp
After the semaphore named
.I name
has been created by
.BR sem_open()
with the
.B O_CREAT
flag, other processes can connect to the semaphore by
calling
.B sem_open()
with the same value of
.IR name .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B O_EXCL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
If
.B O_EXCL
and
.B O_CREAT
are set,
.B sem_open()
fails if the
semaphore
.I name
exists. The check for the existence of the semaphore
and the creation of the semaphore if it does not exist are atomic with
respect to other processes executing
.B sem_open()
with
.B O_EXCL
and
\fBO_CREAT\fR set. If \fBO_EXCL\fR is set and \fBO_CREAT\fR is not set, the
effect is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If flags other than
.B O_CREAT
and
.B O_EXCL
are specified in the
\fIoflag\fR parameter, the effect is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The
.I name
argument points to a string naming a semaphore object. It is
unspecified whether the name appears in the file system and is visible to
functions that take pathnames as arguments. The
.I name
argument conforms
to the construction rules for a pathname. The first character of  \fIname\fR
must be a slash  (/) character and the remaining characters of  \fIname\fR
.RI "cannot include any slash characters.  For maximum portability, " " name"
should include no more than 14 characters, but this limit is not enforced.
.sp
.LP
If a process makes multiple successful calls to
.B sem_open()
with the
same value for
.IR name ,
the same semaphore address is returned for each
such successful call, provided that there have been no calls to
.BR sem_unlink (3C)
for this semaphore.
.sp
.LP
References to copies of the semaphore produce undefined results.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_init\fR(3C) function is used with unnamed semaphores.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function returns the address of the
semaphore. Otherwise, it will return a value of
.B SEM_FAILED
and set
\fBerrno\fR to indicate the error. The symbol \fBSEM_FAILED\fR is defined in
the header
.BR <semaphore.h> \&.
No successful return from
.BR sem_open()
will return the value
.BR SEM_FAILED.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B sem_open()
function
will return
.B SEM_FAILED
and set
.B errno
to the corresponding
value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The named semaphore exists and the
.B O_RDWR
permissions are denied, or
the named semaphore does not exist and permission to create the named
semaphore is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\fBO_CREAT\fR and  \fBO_EXCL\fR are set and the named semaphore already
exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.B sem_open()
function was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.B sem_open()
operation is not supported for the given name, or
\fBO_CREAT\fR was set in \fIoflag\fR and \fIvalue\fR is greater than
.BR SEM_VALUE_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMFILE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The number of open semaphore descriptors in this process exceeds
.BR SEM_NSEMS_MAX ,
or the number of open file descriptors in this process
exceeds
.BR OPEN_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of
.I name
string exceeds
.IR PATH_MAX ,
or a pathname
component is longer than
.I NAME_MAX
while
.B _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENFILE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many semaphores are currently open in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\fBO_CREAT\fR is not set and the named semaphore does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
There is insufficient space for the creation of the new named semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.B sem_open()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR exit (2),
.BR umask (2),
.BR sem_close (3C),
.BR sem_init (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
.BR sem_unlink (3C),
.BR sem_wait (3C),
\fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
.BR standards (5)
