'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_destroy 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_destroy \- destroy an unnamed semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_destroy\fR(\fBsem_t *\fIsem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_destroy()
function is used to destroy the unnamed semaphore
indicated by
.IR sem .
Only a semaphore that was created using
.BR sem_init (3C)
may be destroyed using
.BR sem_destroy() ;
the effect of
calling
.B sem_destroy()
with a named semaphore is undefined. The effect
of subsequent use of the semaphore
.I sem
is undefined until
.I sem
is
re-initialized by another call to
.BR sem_init (3C).
.sp
.LP
It is safe to destroy an initialised semaphore upon which no threads are
currently blocked. The effect of destroying a semaphore upon which other
threads are currently blocked is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B sem_destroy()
returns
.BR 0 ,
otherwise it returns
.B
\(mi1 \c
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_destroy()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I sem
argument is not a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_destroy()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
There are currently processes (or LWPs or threads) blocked on the
semaphore.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sem_init (3C),
.BR sem_open (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
