'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_post 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_post \- increment the count of a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_post\fR(\fBsem_t *\fIsem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_post()
function unlocks the semaphore referenced by
.IR sem
by performing a semaphore unlock operation on that semaphore.
.sp
.LP
If the semaphore value resulting from this operation is positive, then no
threads were blocked waiting for the semaphore to become unlocked; the
semaphore value is simply incremented.
.sp
.LP
If the value of the semaphore resulting from this operation is 0, then one
of the threads  blocked waiting for the semaphore will be allowed to return
successfully from its call to \fBsem_wait\fR(3C). If the symbol
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
is defined, the thread  to be unblocked
will be chosen in a manner appropriate to the scheduling policies and
parameters in effect for the blocked threads. In the case of the schedulers
.B SCHED_FIFO
and
.BR SCHED_RR ,
the highest priority waiting thread
will be unblocked, and if there is more than one highest priority thread
blocked waiting for the semaphore, then the highest priority thread that has
been waiting the longest will be unblocked. If the symbol
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
is not defined, the choice of a thread  to
unblock is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B sem_post()
returns
.BR 0 ;
otherwise it returns
\fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_post()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.I sem
argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.B sem_post()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The semaphore value exceeds
.BR SEM_VALUE_MAX .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_post()
function is reentrant with respect to signals and may
be invoked from a signal-catching function. The semaphore functionality
described on this manual page is for the POSIX (see
.BR standards (5))
threads implementation. For the documentation of the Solaris threads
interface, see
.BR semaphore (3C)).
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR sem_wait (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sched_setscheduler (3C),
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR semaphore (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
