'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_close 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_close \- close a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_close\fR(\fBsem_t *\fIsem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_close()
function is used to indicate that the calling process
is finished using the named semaphore indicated by
.IR sem .
The effects of
calling
.B sem_close()
for an unnamed semaphore (one created by
.BR sem_init (3C))
are undefined. The
.B sem_close()
function
deallocates (that is, make available for reuse by a subsequent
.BR sem_open (3C)
by this process) any system resources allocated by the
system for use by this process for this semaphore. The effect of subsequent
use of the semaphore indicated by
.I sem
by this process is undefined. If
the semaphore has not been removed with a successful call to
.BR sem_unlink (3C),
then
.B sem_close()
has no effect on the state of
the semaphore. If the
.BR sem_unlink (3C)
function has been successfully
invoked for
.I name
after the most recent call to
.BR sem_open "(3C) with"
.B O_CREAT
for this semaphore, then when all processes that have opened
the semaphore close it, the semaphore is no longer be accessible.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B sem_close()
returns
.BR 0 ,
otherwise it returns
.B
\(mi1 \c
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_close()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I sem
argument is not a valid semaphore descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B sem_close()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_close()
function should not be called for an unnamed
semaphore initialized by
.BR sem_init (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sem_init (3C),
.BR sem_open (3C),
.BR sem_unlink (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set
.B errno
to
.BR ENOSYS .
