'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_init 3C "9 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_init \- initialize an unnamed semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_init\fR(\fBsem_t *\fIsem\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_init()
function is used to initialize the unnamed semaphore
referred to by
.IR sem .
The value of the initialized semaphore is
.IR value .
Following a successful call to
.BR sem_init() ,
the semaphore
may be used in subsequent calls to
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR sem_trywait (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
and
.BR sem_destroy "(3C). This"
semaphore remains usable until the semaphore is destroyed.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I pshared
argument has a non-zero value, then the semaphore is
shared between processes; in this case, any process that can access the
semaphore
.I sem
can use
.I sem
for performing
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR sem_trywait (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
and
.BR sem_destroy (3C)
operations.
.sp
.LP
Only
.I sem
itself may be used for performing synchronization. The
result of referring to copies of
.I sem
in calls to
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR sem_trywait (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
and
.BR sem_destroy "(3C), is"
undefined.
.sp
.LP
If the
.I pshared
argument is zero, then the semaphore is shared between
threads of the process; any thread in this process can use
.I sem
for
performing
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR sem_trywait (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
and \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C) operations. The use of the semaphore by threads
other than those created in the same process is undefined.
.sp
.LP
Attempting to initialize an already initialized semaphore results in
undefined behavior.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_open\fR(3C) function is used with named semaphores.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function initializes the semaphore in
.IR sem .
Otherwise, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_init()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I value
argument exceeds
.BR SEM_VALUE_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A resource required to initialize the semaphore has been exhausted, or the
resources have reached the limit on semaphores
.RB ( SEM_NSEMS_MAX ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B sem_init()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The process lacks the appropriate privileges to initialize the semaphore.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sem_destroy (3C),
.BR sem_open (3C),
.BR sem_post (3C),
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
