'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sem_getvalue 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sem_getvalue \- get the value of a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_getvalue\fR(\fBsem_t *restrict\fR \fIsem\fR, \fBint *restrict\fR \fIsval\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_getvalue()
function updates the location referenced by the
.I sval
argument to have the value of the semaphore referenced by
.I sem
without affecting the state of the semaphore. The updated value
represents an actual semaphore value that occurred at some unspecified time
during the call, but it need not be the actual value of the semaphore when it
is returned to the calling process.
.sp
.LP
If
.I sem
is locked, then the value returned by
.B sem_getvalue()
is
either zero or a negative number whose absolute value represents the number
of processes waiting for the semaphore at some unspecified time during the
call.
.sp
.LP
The value set in
.I sval
may be 0 or positive. If
.I sval
is 0, there
may be other processes (or LWPs or threads) waiting for the semaphore; if
.I sval
is positive, no process is waiting.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B sem_getvalue()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
it returns
.B \(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sem_getvalue()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I sem
argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B sem_getvalue()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR sem_post (3C),
.BR sem_wait (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
