'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setenv 3C "31 Mar 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
setenv \- add or change environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetenv\fR(\fBconst char *\fIenvname\fR, \fBconst char *\fIenvval\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIoverwrite\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B setenv()
function updates or adds a variable in the environment
of the calling process.  The
.I envname
argument points to a string
containing the name of an environment variable to be added or altered. The
environment variable is set to the value to which
.I envval
points. The
function fails if
.I envname
points to a string which contains an '='
character. If the environment variable named by
.I envname
already exists
and the value of
.I overwrite
is non-zero, the function returns
successfully and the environment is updated. If the environment variable
named by
.I envname
already exists and the value of
.I overwrite
is
zero, the function returns successfully and the environment remains
unchanged.
.sp
.LP
If the application modifies
.I environ
or the pointers to which it
points, the behavior of
.B setenv()
is undefined. The \fBsetenv()\fR
function updates the list of pointers to which
.I environ
points.
.sp
.LP
The strings described by
.I envname
and
.I envval
are copied by this
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned,
\fBerrno\fR set to indicate the error, and the environment is left
unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B setenv()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I envname
argument is a null pointer, points to an empty string, or
points to a string containing an '=' character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Insufficient memory was available to add a variable or its value to the
environment.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getenv (3C),
.BR unsetenv (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
