'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH shm_unlink 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
shm_unlink \- remove a shared memory object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBshm_unlink\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B shm_unlink()
function removes the name of the shared memory
object named by the string pointed to by
.IR name .
If one or more
references to the shared memory object exists when the object is unlinked,
the name is removed before
.B shm_unlink()
returns, but the removal of
the memory object contents will be postponed until all open and mapped
references to the shared memory object have been removed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B shm_unlink()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise
it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error condition,
and the named shared memory object is not affected by this function call.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B shm_unlink()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Permission is denied to unlink the named shared memory object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The length of the
.I name
string exceeds
.BR PATH_MAX ,
or a pathname
component is longer than
.I NAME_MAX
while
.B _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The named shared memory object does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSYS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The
.B shm_unlink()
function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mlock (3C),
.BR shm_open (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and
Output option. Prior to this release, this function always returned
\fB\(mi1\fR and set
.B errno
to
.BR ENOSYS .
