'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH siginterrupt 3C "1 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
siginterrupt \- allow signals to interrupt functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsiginterrupt\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflag\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B siginterrupt()
function changes the restart behavior when a
function is interrupted by the specified signal. The function
\fBsiginterrupt\fR(\fIsig\fR, \fIflag\fR) has an effect as if implemented
as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
siginterrupt(int sig, int flag) {
     int ret;
     struct sigaction act;
     (void) sigaction(sig, NULL, &act);
     if (flag)
          act.sa_flags &=  SA_RESTART;
     else
          act.sa_flags |= SA_RESTART;
     ret = sigaction(sig, &act, NULL);
     return ret;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B siginterrupt()
returns 0. Otherwise,
\(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B siginterrupt()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I sig
argument is not a valid signal number.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B siginterrupt()
function supports programs written to historical
system interfaces. A standard-conforming application, when being written or
rewritten, should use
.BR sigaction (2)
with the
.B SA_RESTART
flag
instead of
.BR siginterrupt() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
