'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stack_inbounds 3C "18 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stack_inbounds \- determine if address is within stack boundaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ucontext.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstack_inbounds\fR(\fBvoid *\fIaddr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_inbounds()
function returns a boolean value indicating
whether the address specified by
.I addr
is within the boundaries of the
stack of the calling thread. The address is compared to the stack boundary
information returned by a call to
.BR stack_getbounds (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_inbounds()
function returns 0 to indicate that
.IR addr
is not within the current stack bounds, or a non-zero value to indicate that
.I addr
is within the stack bounds.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stack_getbounds (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
