'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stack_getbounds 3C "18 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stack_getbounds \- retrieve stack boundaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ucontext.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstack_getbounds\fR(\fBstack_t *\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_getbounds()
function retrieves the stack boundaries that
the calling thread is currently operating on. If the thread is currently
operating on the alternate signal stack, this function will retrieve the
bounds of that stack.
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B stack_getbounds()
sets the
.B ss_sp
member of the
.B stack_t
structure pointed to by
.I sp
to the base of the stack
region and the
.B ss_size
member to its size (maximum extent) in bytes.
The
.BR ss_flags " member is set to "
.B SS_ONSTACK
if the calling thread
is executing on its alternate signal stack, and zero otherwise.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B stack_getbounds()
returns 0. Otherwise,
\(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_getbounds()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I sp
argument does not refer to a valid address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getustack (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigaltstack (2),
.BR stack_setbounds (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
