'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stack_setbounds 3C "18 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stack_setbounds \- update stack boundaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ucontext.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstack_setbounds\fR(\fBconst stack_t *\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_setbounds()
function updates the current base and bounds of
the stack for the current thread to the bounds specified by the
.B stack_t
structure pointed to by
.IR sp .
The
.B ss_sp
member
refers to the virtual address of the base of the stack memory. The
.B ss_size
member refers to the size of the stack in bytes. The
.B ss_flags
member must be set to 0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B stack_setbounds()
returns 0. Otherwise,
\(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_setbounds()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I sp
argument does not refer to a valid address or the
.BR ss_sp
member of the
.B stack_t
structure pointed to by
.I sp
points to an
illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.B ss_sp
member of the
.B stack_t
structure pointed to by sp is
not properly aligned, the
.B ss_size
member is too small or is not
properly aligned, or the
.B ss_flags
member is non-zero.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_setbounds()
function is intended for use by applications
that are managing their own alternate stacks.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getustack (2),
.BR _stack_grow (3C),
.BR stack_getbounds (3C),
.BR stack_inbounds (3C),
.BR stack_violation (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
