'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strerror 3C "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strerror, strerror_r \- get error message string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBchar *\fBstrerror\fR(\fBint\fR \fIerrnum\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstrerror_r\fR(\fBint\fR \fIerrnum\fR, \fBchar *\fIstrerrbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR  \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strerror()
function maps the error number in
.I errnum
to an
error message string, and returns a pointer to that string. It uses the same
set of error messages as
.BR perror "(3C). The returned string should not be"
overwritten.
.sp
.LP
The
.B strerror_r()
function maps the error number in
.I errnum
to
anerror message string and returns the string in the buffer pointed to by
.I strerrbuf
with length \fIbuflen\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B strerror()
returns a pointer to the
generated message string. Otherwise, it sets
.B errno
and returns a
pointer to an error message string. It returns the string "Unknown error" if
.I errnum
is not a valid error number.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B strerror_r()
returns 0.  Otherwise it sets
.B errno
and returns the value of
.B errno
to indicate the error. It
returns the string "Unknown error" in the buffer pointed to by
.I strerrbuf
if
.I errnum
is not a valid error number.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I errnum
is not a valid error number.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B strerror_r()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ERANGE
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I buflen
argument specifies insufficient storage to contain the
generated message string.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Messages returned from these functions are in the native language specified
by the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale category. See
.BR setlocale (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR perror (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
