'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strsignal 3C "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strsignal \- get name of signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBchar *\fBstrsignal\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strsignal()
function maps the signal number in
.I sig
to a
string describing the signal and returns a pointer to that string. It uses
the same set of the messages as
.BR psignal "(3C). The returned string"
should not be overwritten.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B strsignal()
function returns
.I NULL
if
.I sig
is not a
valid signal number.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Messages returned from this function are in the native language specified
by the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale category. See
.BR setlocale (3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gettext (3C),
.BR psignal (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR str2sig (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
