'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strxfrm 3C "10 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strxfrm \- string transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBstrxfrm\fR(\fBchar *restrict\fR \fIs1\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strxfrm()
function transforms the string pointed to by
.I
s2
and places the resulting string into the array pointed to by
.IR s1 .
The
transformation is such that if
.BR strcmp "(3C) is applied to two"
transformed strings, it returns a value greater than, equal to or less than
.BR 0 ,
corresponding to the result of
.BR strcoll "(3C) applied to the"
same two original strings. No more than
.I n
bytes are placed into the
resulting array pointed to by
.IR s1 ,
including the terminating null byte.
If
.I n
is
.BR 0 ,
.I s1
is permitted to be a null pointer. If
copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is
undefined.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR strxfrm() " function does not change the setting of "
.B errno
if
successful.
.sp
.LP
Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application
wishing to check for error situations should set
.B errno
to 0, then call
.BR strxfrm() ,
then check
.BR errno .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B strxfrm()
returns the length of the
transformed string (not including the terminating null byte). If the value
returned is
.I n
or more, the contents of the array pointed to by
.I s1
are indeterminate.
.sp
.LP
On error,
.B strxfrm()
may set
.B errno
but no return value is
reserved to indicate the error.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The transformation function is such that two transformed strings can be
ordered by
.BR strcmp (3C)
as appropriate to collating sequence information
in the program's locale  (category
.BR LC_COLLATE ).
.sp
.LP
The fact that when
.I n
is
.BR 0 ,
.I s1
is permitted to be a null
pointer, is useful to determine the size of the
.I s1
array prior to
making the transformation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample of using the
.B strxfm()
function.
.sp
.LP
The value of the following expression is the size of the array needed to
hold the transformation of the string pointed to by
.IR s .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
1 + strxfrm(NULL, s, 0);
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fIlocale\fR/\fIlocale\fR.so.*\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B LC_COLLATE
database for
.IR locale
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B strxfrm()
function can be used safely in a multithreaded
application, as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not being called to change
the locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR localedef (1),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR strcmp (3C),
.BR strcoll (3C),
.BR wscoll (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5)
