'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tcsetpgrp 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tcsetpgrp \- set foreground process group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtcsetpgrp\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBpid_t\fR \fIpgid_id\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If the process has a controlling terminal,
.B tcsetpgrp()
will set the
foreground process group
.B ID
associated with the terminal to
.IR pgid_id .
The file associated with
.I fildes
must be the controlling
terminal of the calling process and the controlling terminal must be
currently associated with the session of the calling process. The value of
.I pgid_id
must match a process group
.B ID
of a process in the same
session as the calling process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B tcsetpgrp()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
This implementation does not support the value in the
.IR pgid_id
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTTY
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the file is
not the controlling terminal, or the controlling terminal is no longer
associated with the session of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The process is not ignoring or holding
.B SIGTTOU
and is a member of an
orphaned process group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I pgid_id
does not match the process group
.B ID
of a
process in the same session as the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe, and Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR tcgetpgrp (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5),
.BR termio (7I)
