'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tell 3C "28 Jan 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tell \- return a file offset for a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBoff_t\fR \fBtell\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tell()
function obtains the current value of the file-position
indicator for the file descriptor
.IR fd .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B tell()
returns the current value of the
file-position indicator for
.I fd
measured in bytes from the beginning of
the file.
.sp
.LP
Otherwise, it returns
.B \(mi1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B tell()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The file descriptor
.I fd
is not an open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The current file offset cannot be represented correctly in an object of
type
.BR off_t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESPIPE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The file descriptor
.I fd
is associated with a pipe or FIFO.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B tell()
function is equivalent to \fBlseek(\fIfd\fB, 0, SEEK_CUR)\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR lseek (2),
.BR attributes (5)
