'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH termios 3C "5 Apr 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
termios \- general terminal interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtcgetattr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBstruct termios *\fItermios_p\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcsetattr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoptional_actions\fR,
     \fBconst struct termios *\fItermios_p\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcsendbreak\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIduration\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcdrain\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcflush\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIqueue_selector\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcflow\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIaction\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBspeed_t\fR \fBcfgetospeed\fR(\fBconst struct termios *\fItermios_p\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcfsetospeed\fR(\fBstruct termios *\fItermios_p\fR, \fBspeed_t\fR \fIspeed\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBspeed_t\fR \fBcfgetispeed\fR(\fBconst struct termios *\fItermios_p\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcfsetispeed\fR(\fBstruct termios *\fItermios_p\fR, \fBspeed_t\fR \fIspeed\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <termios.h>

\fBpid_t\fR \fBtcgetpgrp\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtcsetpgrp\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBpid_t\fR \fIpgid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpid_t\fR \fBtcgetsid\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions describe a general terminal interface for controlling
asynchronous communications ports. A more detailed overview of the terminal
interface can be found in
.BR termio "(7I), which also describes an"
.BR ioctl (2)
interface that provides the same functionality. However, the
function interface described by these functions is the preferred user
interface.
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions is now described on a separate manual page.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR cfgetispeed (3C),
.BR cfgetospeed (3C),
.BR cfsetispeed (3C),
.BR cfsetospeed (3C),
.BR tcdrain (3C),
.BR tcflow (3C),
.BR tcflush (3C),
.BR tcgetattr (3C),
.BR tcgetpgrp (3C),
.BR tcgetsid (3C),
.BR tcsendbreak (3C),
.BR tcsetattr (3C),
.BR tcgetpgrp (3C),
.BR tcsendbreak (3C),
.BR termio (7I)
