'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH thr_stksegment 3C "15 Jun 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
thr_stksegment \- get thread stack address and size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <thread.h>
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBthr_stksegment\fR(\fBstack_t *\fIss\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_stksegment()
function returns, in its
.B stack_t
argument,
the address and size of the calling thread's stack.
.sp
.LP
The
.B stack_t
structure includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void   *ss_sp
size_t ss_size
int    ss_flags
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
On successful return from
.BR thr_stksegment() ,
\fBss_sp\fR contains the
high address of the caller's stack and
.B ss_size
contains the size of
the stack in bytes.  The \fBss_flags\fR member is always 0. Note that the
meaning of
.B ss_sp
is reversed from other uses of
.B stack_t
such as
.BR sigaltstack (2)
where
.B ss_sp
is the low address.
.sp
.LP
The stack information provided by
.B thr_stksegment()
is typically used
by debuggers, garbage collectors, and similar applications. Most
applications should not require such information.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The 
.B thr_stksegment()
function returns 
.B 0
if the thread stack
address and size were successfully retrieved.  Otherwise, it returns a
non-zero error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The 
.B thr_stksegment()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The stack information for the thread is not available because the thread's
initialization is not yet complete, or the thread is an internal thread.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigaltstack (2),
.BR thr_create (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
