'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH thr_getconcurrency 3C "11 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
thr_getconcurrency, thr_setconcurrency \- get or set thread concurrency
level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <thread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBthr_setconcurrency\fR(\fBint\fR \fInew_level\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBthr_getconcurrency\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and maintained for compatibility only.  The
.B thr_setconcurrency()
function updates the desired concurrency level
that
.B libthread
maintains for the calling process. This value does not
affect the behavior of the calling process.
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_getconcurrency()
function returns the current value for the
desired concurrency level.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_getconcurrency()
function always returns the current value
for the desired concurrency level.
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B thr_setconcurrency()
function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, a non-zero value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_setconcurrency()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The specified concurrency level would cause a system resource to be
exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The value for
.I new_level
is negative.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR thr_create (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
