'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH thr_getprio 3C "1 Apr 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
thr_getprio, thr_setprio \- access dynamic thread scheduling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <thread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBthr_setprio\fR(\fBthread_t\fR \fItarget_thread\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpriority\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBthr_getprio\fR(\fBthread_t\fR \fItarget_thread\fR, \fBint *\fIpriority\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_setprio()
function sets the scheduling priority for the
thread specified by target_thread within the current process to the value
given by priority.
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_getprio()
function stores the current priority for the thread
specified by
.I target_thread
in the location pointed to by
.IR priority .
.sp
.LP
If the
.B thr_setprio()
function fails, the scheduling priority of the
target thread is not changed.
.sp
.LP
See
.BR priocntl (2),
.BR pthread_setschedprio (3C),
and
.BR sched_setparam (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B thr_getprio()
and
.B thr_setprio()
functions
return
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B thr_getprio()
and
.B thr_setprio()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The value specified by
.I target_thread
does not refer to an existing
thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The 
.B thr_setprio()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I priority
is invalid for the scheduling policy of the
specified thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The caller does not have the appropriate permission to set the priority to
the value specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR priocntl (2),
.BR pthread_setschedprio (3C),
.BR sched_setparam (3C),
.BR thr_create (3C),
.BR thr_suspend (3C),
.BR thr_yield (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
