'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH timer_create 3C "5 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
timer_create \- create a timer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>
#include <time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtimer_create\fR(\fBclockid_t\fR \fIclock_id\fR,
     \fBstruct sigevent *restrict\fR \fIevp\fR, \fBtimer_t *restrict\fR \fItimerid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B timer_create()
function creates a timer using the specified
clock,
.IR clock_id ,
as the timing base. The
.B timer_create()
function
returns, in the location referenced by
.IR timerid ,
a timer
.B ID
of
type
.B timer_t
used to identify the timer in timer requests. This timer
\fBID\fR will be unique within the calling process until the timer is
deleted. The particular clock,
.IR clock_id ,
is defined in <\fBtime.h\fR>.
The timer whose
.B ID
is returned will be in a disarmed state upon return
from
.BR timer_create() .
.sp
.LP
The
.I evp
argument, if non-null, points to a
.B sigevent
structure.
This structure, allocated by the application, defines the asynchronous
notification that will occur when the timer expires (see
.BR signal.h (3HEAD)
for event notification details). If the \fIevp\fR
argument is
.IR NULL ,
the effect is as if the
.I evp
argument pointed
to a
.B sigevent
structure with the \fBsigev_notify\fR member having the
value
.BR SIGEV_SIGNAL ,
the
.B sigev_signo
having the value
.BR SIGALARM ,
and the
.B sigev_value
member having the value of the
timer
.BR ID .
.sp
.LP
The system defines a set of clocks that can be used as timing bases for
per-process timers. The following values for
.I clock_id
are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_REALTIME
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
wall clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_VIRTUAL
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
user CPU usage clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_PROF
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
user and system CPU usage clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CLOCK_HIGHRES
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
non-adjustable, high-resolution clock
.RE

.sp
.LP
For timers created with a
.I clock_id
of
.BR CLOCK_HIGHRES ,
the system
will attempt to use an optimal hardware source. This may include, but is not
limited to, per-CPU timer sources.  The actual hardware source used is
transparent to the user and may change over the lifetime of the timer. For
example, if the caller that created the timer were to change its processor
binding or its processor set, the system may elect to drive the timer with a
hardware source  that better reflects the new binding. Timers based on a
\fIclock_id\fR of \fBCLOCK_HIGHRES\fR are ideally suited for interval timers
that have minimal jitter tolerence.
.sp
.LP
Timers are not inherited by a child process across a
.BR fork (2)
and are
disarmed and deleted by a call to one of the
.B exec
functions (see
.BR exec (2)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B timer_create()
returns
.B 0
and
updates the location referenced by
.I timerid
to a
.BR timer_t ,
which
can be passed to the per-process timer calls. If an error occurs, the
function returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error. The
value of
.I timerid
is undefined if an error occurs.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B timer_create()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The system lacks sufficient signal queuing resources to honor the request,
or the calling process has already created all of the timers it is allowed
by the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified clock
.BR ID ,
.IR clock_id ,
is not defined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified clock
.BR ID ,
.IR clock_id ,
is
.B CLOCK_HIGHRES
and
the {\fBPRIV_PROC_CLOCK_HIGHRES\fR} is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exec (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR time (2),
.BR clock_settime (3C),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR signal.h (3HEAD),
.BR timer_delete (3C),
.BR timer_settime (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5),
.BR standards (5)
