'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994-2008 The FreeBSD Project. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1982, 1986, 1993 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH timeradd 3C "12 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
timeradd, timersub, timerclear, timerisset, timercmp \- operations on
timeval structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBtimeradd\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fIa\fR, \fBstruct timeval *\fIb\fR,
     \fBstruct timeval *\fIres\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBtimerclear\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fItvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtimercmp\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fIa\fR, \fBstruct timeval *\fIb\fR, \fICMP\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtimerisset\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fItvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBtimersub\fR(\fBstruct timeval *\fIa\fR, \fBstruct timeval *\fIb\fR,
     \fBstruct timeval *\fIres\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These macros are provided for manipulating
.B timeval
structures for use
with \fBgettimeofday\fR(3C) and \fBsettimeofday\fR(3C) operands. The
structure is defined in
.B <sys/time.h>
as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct timeval {
    long    tv_sec;     /* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
    long    tv_usec;    /* and microseconds */
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B timeradd()
macro adds the time information stored in
.I a
to
\fIb\fR and stores the resulting \fBtimeval\fR in
.IR res .
The results are
simplified such that the value of \fIres\fR\(->\fItv_usec\fR is always less
than 1,000,000 (1 second).
.sp
.LP
The
.B timersub()
macro subtracts the time information stored in
.IR b
from
.I a
and stores the resulting
.B timeval
in
.IR res .
.sp
.LP
The
.B timerclear()
macro initializes
.I tvp
to midnight (0 hour)
January 1st, 1970 (the Epoch).
.sp
.LP
The
.B timerisset()
macro returns true if
.I tvp
is set to any time
value other than the Epoch.
.sp
.LP
The
.B timercmp()
macro compares
.I a
to
.I b
using the form a
.IR "CMP b" ,
where
.I CMP
is one of
.BR "<, <=" ,
.BR == ,
.BR != ,
.BR >= ,
or
.BR > .
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These macros are not available in function form. All of these macros
evaluate their arguments more than once. If parameters passed to these
macros are expressions with side effects, the results are undefined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with Exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gettimeofday (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
