'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tolower 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tolower \- transliterate upper-case characters to lower-case
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ctype.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtolower\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tolower()
function has as a domain a type
.BR int ,
the value of
which is representable as an
.B "unsigned char"
or the value of
.BR EOF .
If
the argument has any other value, the argument is returned unchanged. If the
argument of
.B tolower()
represents an upper-case letter, and there exists
a corresponding lower-case letter (as defined by character type information in
the program locale category
.BR LC_CTYPE ),
the result is the
corresponding lower-case letter. All other arguments in the domain are
returned unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,
.B tolower()
returns the lower-case letter
corresponding to the argument passed. Otherwise, it returns the argument
unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR _tolower (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
