'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tsearch 3C "6 Dec 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tsearch, tfind, tdelete, twalk \- manage binary search trees
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <search.h>

\fBvoid *\fBtsearch\fR(\fBconst void *\fIkey\fR, \fBvoid **\fIrootp\fR,
     \fBint (*\fIcompar\fR)(const void *, const void *));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBtfind\fR(\fBconst void *\fIkey\fR, \fBvoid * const *\fIrootp\fR,
     \fBint (*\fIcompar\fR)(const void *, const void *));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBtdelete\fR(\fBconst void *restrict\fR \fIkey\fR, \fBvoid **restrict\fR \fIrootp\fR,
     \fBint (*\fIcompar\fR)(const void *, const void *));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBtwalk\fR(\fBconst void *\fIroot\fR, \fBvoid(*\fIaction\fR) (void *, VISIT, int));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR tsearch() ,
.BR tfind() ,
.BR tdelete() ,
and
.BR twalk()
functions are routines for manipulating binary search trees. They are
generalized from
.I "Knuth (6.2.2)"
.I "Algorithms T" and
.I D.
All comparisons are done with a user-supplied routine. This routine
is called with two arguments, the pointers to the elements being compared. It
returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than 0, according to
whether the first argument is to be considered less than, equal to or greater
than the second argument. The comparison function need not compare every byte,
so arbitrary data may be contained in the elements in addition to the values
being compared.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tsearch()
function is used to build and access the tree.  The
.I key
argument is a pointer to a datum to be accessed or stored. If there
is a datum in the tree equal to
.I *key
(the value pointed to by
.IR key ),
a pointer to this found datum is returned. Otherwise,
.I *key
is inserted, and a pointer to it returned. Only pointers are copied, so the
calling routine must store the data. The
.I rootp
argument points to a
variable that points to the root of the tree. A null value for the variable
pointed to by
.I rootp
denotes an empty tree; in this case, the variable
will be set to point to the datum which will be at the root of the new tree.
.sp
.LP
Like
.BR tsearch() ,
.B tfind()
will search for a datum in the tree,
returning a pointer to it if found. However, if it is not found,
.B tfind()
will return a null pointer. The arguments for
.B tfind()
are the same as
for
.BR tsearch() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B tdelete()
function deletes a node from a binary search tree. The
arguments are the same as for
.BR tsearch() .
The variable pointed to by
.I rootp
will be changed if the deleted node was the root of the tree.
.B tdelete()
returns a pointer to the parent of the deleted node, or a null
pointer if the node is not found.
.sp
.LP
The
.B twalk()
function traverses a binary search tree. The
.I root
argument is the root of the tree to be traversed. (Any node in a tree may be
used as the root for a walk below that node.)
.I action
is the name of a
routine to be invoked at each node. This routine is, in turn, called with
three arguments. The first argument is the address of the node being visited.
The second argument is a value from an enumeration data type
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef enum { preorder, postorder, endorder, leaf } VISIT;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
(defined in
.RB < search.h >),
depending on whether this is the first, second
or third time that the node has been visited (during a depth-first,
left-to-right traversal of the tree), or whether the node is a leaf. The third
argument is the level of the node in the tree, with the root being level
zero.
.sp
.LP
The pointers to the key and the root of the tree should be of type
pointer-to-element, and cast to type pointer-to-character. Similarly, although
declared as type pointer-to-character, the value returned should be cast into
type pointer-to-element.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the node is found, both
.B tsearch()
and
.B tfind()
return a pointer
.RB "to it.  If not, " tfind() " returns a null pointer, and " tsearch() 
returns a pointer to the inserted item.
.sp
.LP
A null pointer is returned by
.B tsearch()
if there is not enough space
available to create a new node.
.sp
.LP
A null pointer is returned by
.BR tsearch() ,
.B tfind()
and
.B tdelete()
if
.I rootp
is a null pointer on entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B tdelete()
function returns a pointer to the parent of the deleted
node, or a null pointer if the node is not found.
.sp
.LP
The
.B twalk()
function returns no value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.I root
argument to
.B twalk()
is one level of indirection less
than the
.I rootp
arguments to
.B tsearch()
and
.BR tdelete() .
.sp
.LP
There are two nomenclatures used to refer to the order in which tree nodes
are visited.
.B tsearch()
uses preorder, postorder and endorder to refer
respectively to visiting a node before any of its children, after its left
child and before its right, and after both its children. The alternate
nomenclature uses preorder, inorder and postorder to refer to the same visits,
which could result in some confusion over the meaning of postorder.
.sp
.LP
If the calling function alters the pointer to the root, the results are
unpredictable.
.sp
.LP
These functions safely allows concurrent access by multiple threads to
disjoint data, such as overlapping subtrees or tables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample program of using
.B tsearch()
function.
.sp
.LP
The following code reads in strings and stores structures containing a
pointer to each string and a count of its length. It then walks the tree,
printing out the stored strings and their lengths in alphabetical order.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <string.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <search.h>
struct node {
        char *string;
        int length;
};
char string_space[10000];
struct node nodes[500];
void *root = NULL;

int node_compare(const void *node1, const void *node2) {
        return strcmp(((const struct node *) node1)->string,
                      ((const struct node *) node2)->string);
}

void print_node(const void *node, VISIT order, int level) {
        if (order == preorder || order == leaf) {
                printf("length=%d, string=%20s\en",
                (*(struct node **)node)->length,
                (*(struct node **)node)->string);
        }
}

main()
{
        char *strptr = string_space;
        struct node *nodeptr = nodes;
        int i = 0;

        while (gets(strptr) != NULL && i++ < 500) {
                nodeptr->string = strptr;
                nodeptr->length = strlen(strptr);
                (void) tsearch((void *)nodeptr,
                        &root, node_compare);
                strptr += nodeptr->length + 1;
                nodeptr++;
        }
        twalk(root, print_node);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsearch (3C),
.BR hsearch (3C),
.BR lsearch (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
