'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ungetc 3C "10 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ungetc \- push byte back into input stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBungetc\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR, \fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ungetc()
function pushes the byte specified by
.I c
(converted
to an
.BR "unsigned char" )
back onto the input stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
The pushed-back bytes will be returned by subsequent reads on
that stream in the reverse order of their pushing. A successful intervening
call
.RI "(with the stream pointed to by " stream )
to a file-positioning
function ( \fBfseek\fR(3C), \fBfsetpos\fR(3C) or
.BR rewind (3C))
discards
any pushed-back bytes for the stream. The external storage corresponding to
the stream is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
Four bytes of push-back are guaranteed.  If
.B ungetc()
is called too
many times on the same stream without an intervening read or
file-positioning operation on that stream, the operation may fail.
.sp
.LP
If the value of
.I c
equals that of the macro
.BR EOF ,
the operation
fails and the input stream is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
A successful call to
.B ungetc()
clears the end-of-file indicator for
the stream. The value of the file-position indicator for the stream after
reading or discarding all pushed-back bytes will be the same as it was
before the bytes were pushed back. The file-position indicator is
decremented by each successful call to
.BR ungetc() ;
if its value was 0
before a call, its value is indeterminate after the call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B ungetc()
returns the byte pushed back
after conversion.  Otherwise it returns \fBEOF.\fR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR read (2),
.BR Intro (3),
.BR __fsetlocking (3C),
.BR fseek (3C),
.BR fsetpos (3C),
.BR getc (3C),
.BR setbuf (3C),
.BR stdio (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
