'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ungetwc 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ungetwc \- push wide-character code back into input stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBungetwc\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBFILE *\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ungetwc()
function pushes the character corresponding to the wide
character code specified by
.I wc
back onto the input stream pointed to
by
.IR stream .
The pushed-back characters will be returned by subsequent
reads on that stream in the reverse order of their pushing. A successful
intervening call
.RI "(with the stream pointed to by " stream )
to a
file-positioning function ( \fBfseek\fR(3C), \fBfsetpos\fR(3C) or
.BR rewind (3C))
discards any pushed-back characters for the stream. The
external storage corresponding to the stream is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
One character of push-back is guaranteed. If
.B ungetwc()
is called too
many times on the same stream without an intervening read or
file-positioning operation on that stream, the operation may fail.
.sp
.LP
If the value of
.I wc
equals that of the macro
.BR WEOF ,
the operation
fails and the input stream is unchanged.
.sp
.LP
A successful call to
.B ungetwc()
clears the end-of-file indicator for
the stream. The value of the file-position indicator for the stream after
reading or discarding all pushed-back characters will be the same as it was
before the characters were pushed back. The file-position indicator is
decremented (by one or more) by each successful call to
.BR ungetwc() ;
if
its value was 0 before a call, its value is indeterminate after the call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B ungetwc()
returns the wide-character code
corresponding to the pushed-back character. Otherwise it returns
.BR WEOF .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B ungetwc()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EILSEQ
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
An invalid character sequence is detected, or a wide-character code does
not correspond to a valid character.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR read (2),
.BR fseek (3C),
.BR fsetpos (3C),
.BR rewind (3C),
.BR setbuf (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
