'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wcsxfrm 3C "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wcsxfrm, wsxfrm \- wide character string transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBwcsxfrm\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fIws1\fR, \fBconst wchar_t *\fIws2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fBwsxfrm\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fIws1\fR, \fBconst wchar_t *\fIws2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwcsxfrm()\fR functions transform the wide
character string pointed to by
.I ws2
and place the resulting wide
character string into the array pointed to by
.IR ws1 .
The transformation
is such that if either the \fBwcscmp\fR(3C) or \fBwscmp\fR(3C) functions are
applied to two transformed wide strings, they return a value greater than,
equal to, or less than 0, corresponding to the result of the
.BR wcscoll (3C)
or \fBwscoll\fR(3C) function applied to the same two
original wide character strings. No more than
.I n
wide-character codes
are placed into the resulting array pointed to by
.IR ws1 ,
including the
terminating null wide-character code. If
.I n
is 0,
.I ws1
is
permitted to be a null pointer. If copying takes place between objects that
overlap, the behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwsxfrm()\fR functions do not change the setting
of
.B errno
if successful.
.sp
.LP
Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application
wishing to check for error situations should set
.B errno
to 0, then call
.B wcsxfrm()
or
.BR wsxfrm() ,
then check
.BR errno .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwsxfrm()\fR functions return the length of the
transformed wide character string (not including the terminating null
wide-character code). If the value returned is
.I n
or more, the contents
of the array pointed to by
.I ws1
are indeterminate.
.sp
.LP
On error, \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwsxfrm()\fR may set
.B errno
but no
return value is reserved to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwsxfrm()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The wide character string pointed to by
.I ws2
contains wide-character
codes outside the domain of the collating sequence.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The transformation function is such that  two transformed wide character
strings can be ordered by the
.B wcscmp()
or
.B wscmp()
functions as
appropriate to collating sequence information in the program's locale
(category
.BR LC_COLLATE ).
.sp
.LP
The fact that when
.I n
is 0,
.I ws1
is permitted to be a null
pointer, is useful to determine the size of the
.I ws1
array prior to
making the transformation.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface Stability\fBwcsxfrm()\fR is Standard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBwcsxfrm()\fR and \fBwsxfrm()\fR functions can be used safely in
multithreaded applications as long as
.BR setlocale "(3C) is not being"
called to change the locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR wcscmp (3C),
.BR wcscoll (3C),
.BR wscmp (3C),
.BR wscoll (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
