'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wctomb 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wctomb \- convert a wide-character code to a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwctomb\fR(\fBchar *\fIs\fR, \fBwchar_t\fR \fIwchar\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wctomb()
function determines the number of bytes needed to
represent the character corresponding to the wide-character code whose value
is
.IR wchar .
It stores the character representation (possibly multiple
bytes) in the array object pointed to by
.I s
(if
.I s
is not a null
pointer). At most
.B MB_CUR_MAX
bytes are stored.
.sp
.LP
A call with
.I s
as a null pointer causes this function to return
.BR 0 .
The behavior of this function is affected by the
.BR LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.I s
is a null pointer,
.B wctomb()
returns
.B 0
value. If
.I s
is not a null pointer,
.B wctomb()
returns
.B \(mi1
if the
value of
.I wchar
does not correspond to a valid character, or returns
the number of bytes that constitute the character corresponding to the value
of
.IR wchar .
.sp
.LP
In no case will the value returned be greater than the value of the
.B MB_CUR_MAX
macro.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B wctomb()
function can be used safely in a multithreaded
application, as long as
.BR setlocale (3C)
is not being called to change
the locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mblen (3C),
.BR mbstowcs (3C),
.BR mbtowc (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR wcstombs (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
