'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wctype 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wctype \- define character class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwctype_t\fR \fBwctype\fR(\fBconst char *\fIcharclass\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wctype()
function is defined for valid character class names as
defined in the current locale. The
.I charclass
is a string identifying a
generic character class for which codeset-specific type information is
required. The following character class names are defined in all locales:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
alnumalphablank
cntrldigitgraph
lowerprintpunct
spaceupperxdigit
.TE

.sp
.LP
Additional character class names defined in the locale definition file
(category
.BR LC_CTYPE )
can also be specified.
.sp
.LP
The function returns a value of type
.BR wctype_t ,
which can be used as
the second argument to subsequent calls of
.BR iswctype (3C).
.B wctype()
determines values of
.B wctype_t
according to the rules of the coded
character set defined by character type information in the program's locale
(category
.BR LC_CTYPE ).
The values returned by
.B wctype()
are valid
until a call to
.BR setlocale (3C)
that modifies the category
.BR LC_CTYPE .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B wctype()
function returns
.B 0
if the given character class
name is not valid for the current locale (category
.BR LC_CTYPE );
otherwise
it returns an object of type
.B wctype_t
that can be used in calls to
.BR iswctype() .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
.B
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iswctype (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
