'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wsprintf 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wsprintf \- formatted output conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <widec.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwsprintf\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fIs\fR, \fBconst char *\fIformat\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIarg\fR */ .\|.\|. ););
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wsprintf()
function outputs a Process Code string ending with a
Process Code
.RB ( wchar_t )
null character.  It is the user's
responsibility to allocate enough space for this
.B wchar_t
string.
.sp
.LP
This returns the number of Process Code characters (excluding the null
terminator) that have been written. The conversion specifications and
.RB "behavior of " wsprintf() " are the same as the regular " sprintf (3C)
function except that the result is a Process Code string for
\fBwsprintf(\|),\fR and on Extended Unix Code (EUC) character string for
.BR sprintf() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B wsprintf()
returns the number of
characters printed. Otherwise, a negative value is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR wsscanf (3C),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR sprintf (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
