'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH wsscanf 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wsscanf \- formatted input conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include<stdio.h>
#include <widec.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwsscanf\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fIs\fR, \fBconst char *\fIformat\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIpointer\fR */ .\|.\|. );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wsscanf()
function reads Process Code characters from the Process
Code string
.IR s ,
interprets them according to the
.IR format ,
and
stores the results in its arguments.  It expects, as arguments, a control
string
.IR format ,
and a set of
.I pointer
arguments indicating where
the converted input should be stored. The results are undefined if there are
insufficient
.IR arg s
for the format.  If the format is exhausted while
\fIarg\fRs remain, the excess \fIarg\fRs are simply ignored.
.sp
.LP
The conversion specifications and behavior of
.B wsscanf()
are the same
as the regular
.BR sscanf (3C)
function except that the source is a Process
Code string for
.B wsscanf()
and on Extended Unix Code (EUC) character
string for
.BR sscanf (3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B wsscanf()
returns the number of
characters matched. Otherwise, it returns a negative value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR wsprintf (3C),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR scanf (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
