'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tokenmt 7ipp "29 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "IP Quality of Service Modules"
.SH NAME
tokenmt \- Single and Two Rate Three Conformance Level Meter
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tokenmt
module can be configured as a Single or a Two Rate meter.
Packets are deemed to belong to one of the three levels - Red, Yellow or
Green - depending on the configured rate(s) and the burst sizes. When
configured as a Single Rate meter,
.B tokenmt
can operate with just the
Green and Red levels.
.sp
.LP
Configuration parameters for
.B tokenmt
correspond to definitions in
.I RFC- 2697
and
.I "RFC- 2698"
as follows:
.sp
.LP
Configuring
.B tokenmt
as a Single Rate meter (from
.IR "RFC- 2697" ):
.br
.in +2
committed_rate - CIR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
committed_burst - CBS
.in -2
.br
.in +2
peak_burst - EBS
.in -2
.sp
.LP
(thus 'peak_burst' for a single rate meter is actually the 'excess burst'
in the RFC. However, throughout the text the parameter name "peak burst" is
used.)
.sp
.LP
Configuring tokenmt as a Two Rate meter (from
.IR "RFC- 2698" ):
.br
.in +2
committed_rate - CIR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
peak_rate - PIR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
committed_burst - CBS
.in -2
.br
.in +2
peak_burst - PBS
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The meter is implemented using token buckets C and P, which initially hold
tokens equivalent to committed and peak burst sizes (bits) respectively.
When a packet of size
.I " B"
bits arrive at time
.IR " t" ,
the following
occurs:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
When operating as a Single Rate meter, the outcome (level)
is decided as follows:
        - Update tokens in C and P
              o Compute no. of tokens accumulated since the
                last time packet was seen at the committed rate as
                T(t) = committed rate * (t - t')
                (where t' is the time the last packet was seen)
              o Add T tokens to C up to a maximum of committed burst
                size. Add remaining tokens ((C+T) - Commited Burst),
                if any, to P, to a maximum of peak burst size.
        - Decide outcome
              o If not color aware
                      o If B <= C, outcome is GREEN and C -= B.
                      o Else, if B <= P, outcome is YELLOW and P -= B.
                      o Else, outcome is Red.
              o Else,
                      o obtain DSCP from packet
                      o obtain color from color_map, color_map[DSCP]
                      o if (color is GREEN) and (B <= C), outcome is
                        GREEN and C -= B.
                      o Else, if (color is GREEN or YELLOW) and
                        (B <= P), outcome is YELLOW and  P -= B.
                      o Else, outcome is RED.
     Note that if peak_burst and yellow_next_actions are
     not specified (that is, a single rate meter with two
     outcomes), the outcome is never YELLOW.
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
When operating as a Two Rate meter, the outcome (level) is decided as
follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
- Update tokens in C and P
                  o Compute no. of tokens accumulated since the last time a
                    packet was seen at the committed and peak rates as
                    Tc(t) = committed rate * (t - t')
                    Tp(t) = peak rate * (t - t')
                    (where t' is the time the last packet was seen)
                  o Add Tc to C up to a maximum of committed burst size
                  o Add Tp to P up to a maximum of peak burst size
             - Decide outcome
                  o If not color aware
                        o If B > P, outcome is RED.
                        o Else, if B > C, outcome is YELLOW and P -= B
                        o Else, outcome is GREEN and C -= B & P -= B
                  o Else,
                        o obtain DSCP from packet
                        o obtain color from color_map, color_map[DSCP]
                        o if (color is RED) or (B > P), outcome is RED
                        o Else, if (color is YELLOW) or (B > C),
                          outcome is YELLOW and P -= B
                        o Else, outcome is GREEN and C -= B & P -= B
.fi
.in -2

.SH STATISTICS
.sp
.LP
The
.B tokenmt
module exports the following statistics through
.BR kstat :
.sp
.LP
Global statistics:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
module: tokenmt                          instance: <action id>
  name: tokenmt statistics               class <action name>
        epackets                         <number of packets in error>
        green_bits                       <number of bits in green>
        green_packets                    <number of packets in green>
        red_bits                         <number of bits in red>
        red_packets                      <number of packets in red>
        yellow_bits                      <number of bits in yellow>
        yellow packets                   <number of packets in yellow>
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/ipp/sparcv9/tokenmt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit module (SPARC only.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWqos
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipqosconf (1M),
\fBdlcosmk\fR(7ipp), \fBdscpmk\fR(7ipp),
\fBflowacct\fR(7ipp), \fBipqos\fR(7ipp), \fBipgpc\fR(7ipp),
.BR tswtclmt (7ipp)
.sp
.LP
.I "RFC 2697, A Single Rate Three Color Marker
J. Heinanen, R. Guerin
\(em The Internet Society, 1999
.sp
.LP
.I "RFC 2698, A Two Rate Three Color Marker
J. Heinanen, R. Guerin \(em
The Internet Society, 1999
