'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfModifyLu 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfModifyLu, stmfModifyLuByFname \- modify a logical uni
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfModifyLu\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fIluGuid\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIprop\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpropVal\fR)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstmfModifyLu\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fIdType\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfname\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIprop\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpropVal\fR)
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I luGuid
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The guid of logical unit to modify.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fname
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The filename of logical unit to modify.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dType
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Type of logical unit. See
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I prop
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A property type value. See DESCRIPTION for valid values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I propVal
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A property value.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR stmfModifyLu() " and "
.B stmfModifyLuByFname()
functions modify
the properties of a logical unit device.
.sp
.LP
Valid properties for modify
.BR STMF_DISK :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_ALIAS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 255 characters representing a user defined name for the device.
.sp
Default: Set to file name of backing store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_SIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric value with optional suffix (for example, 100G, 1T) to specify unit
of size.
.sp
Default: Size of device specified in the
.B STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME
property value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_WRITE_CACHE_DISABLE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write back cache disable. When specified as "true" or "false", specifies
write back cache disable behavior.
.sp
Default: Writeback cache setting of the backing store device specified by
.BR STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_WRITE_PROTECT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write protect bit. When specified as "true" or "false", specifies whether
the device behaves as a write protected device.
.sp
Default: "false"
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either
.I prop
or
.I propVal
is unrecognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_PROPSIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The size of
.I propVal
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_NO_PROP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of
.I prop
is unknown for this resource type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
