'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfFreeLuResource 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfFreeLuResource \- free an allocated logical unit resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hdl
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A logical unit resource previously allocated in a call to
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF)
or \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(3STMF).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfFreeLuResource()
function frees a logical unit resource that
was previously allocated in a call to \fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF) or
.BR stmfGetLuResource (3STMF).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The
.I hdl
argument is not a valid logical unit resource.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF),
.BR stmfGetLuResource (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
