'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfGetLuResource 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetLuResource \- get a logical unit resource for a currently registered
logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fIluGuid\fR, \fBluResource *\fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I luGuid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The guid of logical unit to retrieve.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hdl
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The logical unit resource to create.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfGetLuResource()
function retrieves a logical unit resource
.I hdl
for a given logical unit. The
.I luGuid
argument must represent
a currently registered stmf logical unit. This retrieved resource is a set
of device-specific properties for a logical unit device. This allocates an
.B luResource
.I hdl
of device type matching
.IR luGuid .
The
.BR stmfFreeLuResource (3STMF)
function should be used when
.I hdl
is no
longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The guid does not exist.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfFreeLuResource (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
