'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfAddToHostGroup 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfAddToHostGroup \- add an initiator port to an existing host group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfAddToHostGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fIhostGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfDevid\fR \fIinitiatorName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hostGroupName
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The name of the host group to which the specified initiatorName is added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I initiatorName
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The device identifier of the initiator port to add to the specified host
group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfAddToHostGroup()
function adds an initiator port to an
existing host group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_EXISTS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The specified
.I initiatorName
already exists in this
.I hostGroupName
or in another host group in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The specified
.I hostGroupName
was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
