'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfSetLuProp 3STMF "17 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetLuProp, stmfGetLuProp \- set or get a logical unit property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetLuProp\fR(\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIprop\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpropVal\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLuProp\fR(\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIprop\fR, \fBchar *\fIpropVal\fR,
     \fBsize_t *\fIpropLen\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hdl
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A logical unit resource previously allocated by
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF)
or \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(3STMF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I prop
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A property type value. See DESCRIPTION for valid values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I propVal
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A property value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I propLen
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The length of the specified property value. If
.I propLen
was of an
insufficient size to hold the returned property value,
.I propLen
will
contain the required size of the buffer and
.BR STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
will be returned.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions set or get property values. All property values are
expressed in human-readable form. Boolean properties are expressed in case
insensitive form of "true" or "false". Properties that are represented by
ASCII hexadecimal contain no leading characters to indicate a base
hexadecimal representation (that is, no leading "0x"). The \fIprop\fR
argument can be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_ALIAS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 255 characters representing a user defined name for the device.
.sp
Default: Set to file name of backing store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_BLOCK_SIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric value for block size in bytes in 2^n.
.sp
Default: 512
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_COMPANY_ID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Organizational Unique Identifier. 6 hexadecimal ASCII characters
representing the IEEE OUI company id assignment. This will be used to
generate the device identifier (GUID).
.sp
Default: 00144F
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Character value representing the file name of the backing store device.
.sp
Default: None
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_GUID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ASCII hexadecimal string of 32 characters representing the unique
identifier for the device. This must be of valid 32 hexadecimal ASCII
characters representing a valid NAA Registered Extended Identifier.
.sp
Default: Set by framework to a generated value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_META_FILENAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Metadata file name. When specified, will be used to hold the SCSI metadata
for the logical unit.
.sp
Default: None. If this value is not specified, the value specified in
.B STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME
will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_MGMT_URL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 1024 characters representing Management Network Address URLs. More
than one URL can be passed using space delimited URLs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_PID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 16 characters of product identification that will be reflected in the
Standard INQUIRY data returned for the device.
.sp
Default: sSet to COMSTAR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_PRODUCT_REV
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Up to 4 characters of revision information that will be reflected in the
Standard INQUIRY data returned for the device.
.sp
Default: Set to 1.0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_SERIAL_NUM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Serial Number. Specifies the SCSI Vital Product Data Serial Number (page
80h). It is a character value up to 252 bytes in length.
.sp
Default: None
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_SIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Numeric value w/optional suffix, e.g. 100G, 1T, to specify unit of size.
.sp
Default: Size of the device specified in the
.B STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME
property value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_VID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
8 characters of vendor identification per SCSI SPC-3 and will be reflected
in the Standard INQUIRY data returned for the device.
.sp
Default: Set to SUN.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_WRITE_CACHE_DISABLE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write back cache disable. When specified as "true" or "false", specifies
write back cache disable behavior.
.sp
Default: Writeback cache setting of the backing store device specified by
.BR STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_LU_PROP_WRITE_PROTECT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write protect bit. When specified as "true" or "false", specifies whether
the device behaves as a write protected device.
.sp
Default: "false"
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either
.I prop
or
.I propVal
is unrecognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_PROPSIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The size of
.I propVal
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_NO_PROP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of
.I prop
is unknown for this resource type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfCreateLuResource (3STMF),
.BR stmfGetLuResource (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
