'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfGetLogicalUnitProperties 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetLogicalUnitProperties \- retrieve the properties of the specified
logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLogicalUnitProperties\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fIlogicalUnit\fR,
     \fBstmfLogicalUnitProperties *\fIlogicalUnitProps\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I logicalUnit
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The identifier of the logical unit whose properties are being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I logicalUnitProps
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A pointer to an
.B stmfLogicalUnitProperties
structure. On successful
return, this will contain the properties for the specified
.IR logicalUnitOid .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfGetLogicalUnitProperties()
function retrieves the properties
of the specified logical unit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_LOGICAL_UNIT_NOT_REGISTERED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.I logicalUnit
is not a valid registered logical unit in the
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
