'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfGetAluaState 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetAluaState \- return the Asymmetric Logical Unit Access State (ALUA)
mode for STMF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetAluaState\fR(\fBboolean_t *\fIalua_enabled\fR, \fBuint32_t *\fInode\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alua_enabled
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set to
.B B_TRUE
or
.B B_FALSE
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I node
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Set to 0 or 1 on success.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfGetAluaState()
function returns the Asymmetric Logical Unit
Access State (ALUA) mode for STMF along with the node setting.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Either
.I alua_enabled
or
.I node
was incorrectly set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
