'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfCreateLu 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfCreateLu \- create a logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfCreateLu\fR(\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR, \fBstmfGuid *\fIluGuid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hdl
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The logical unit resource returned from a previous call to
\fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I luGuid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
If non-null, it must contain a pointer to an \fBstmfGuid\fR structure
allocated by the caller. On successful return from this API, it will contain
the guid of the newly created logical unit. If
.I luGuid
is
.IR NULL ,
this argument is ignored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The stmfCreateLu function creates a logical unit in stmf using the
properties of
.IR hdl .
See \fBstmfSetLuProp\fR(3STMF) for a complete
description of properties and their possible values.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_FILE_IN_USE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The filename specified by the
.B STMF_LU_PROP_DATA_FILENAME
or
\fBSTMF_LU_PROP_META_FILENAME\fR was in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_GUID_IN_USE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The guid specified by the
.B STMF_LU_PROP_GUID
property is already being
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_BLKSIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The blocksize specified by
.B STMF_LU_PROP_BLOCK_SIZE
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_WRITE_CACHE_SET
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The requested write cache setting could not be provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_SIZE_OUT_OF_RANGE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified logical unit size is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_META_FILE_NAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified meta file could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_DATA_FILE_NAME
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified data file could not be accessed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF),
\fBstmfSetLuProp\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
