'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfSetProviderData 3STMF "7 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetProviderData \- set the data for the specified provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetProviderData\fR(\fBchar *\fIproviderName\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fInvl\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIproviderType\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I providerName
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The name of the provider for which data is being set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nvl
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A pointer to an
.B nvlist_t
containing the nvlist to be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I providerType
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value must be either
.B STMF_LU_PROVIDER_TYPE
or
.BR STMF_PORT_PROVIDER_TYPE .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfSetProviderData()
function sets the data for the specified
provider.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_NOMEM
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The library was unable to allocate sufficient memory to return the data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted (Obsolete)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfSetProviderDataProt (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfSetProviderData()
function is deprecated in favor of
.BR stmfSetProviderDataProt (3STMF)
and may be removed in a future revision
of
.BR libstmf (3LIB).
