'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfSetAluaState 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetAluaState \- set the Asymmetric Logical Unit Access State (ALUA)
mode for STMF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetAluaState\fR(\fBboolean_t\fR \fIalua_enabled\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fInode\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alua_enabled
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.B B_TRUE
when enabling ALUA mode;
.B B_FALSE
when disabling ALUA
mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I node
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Must be the value 0 or 1.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfSetAluaState()
function sets the Asymmetric Logical Unit
Access State (ALUA) mode for STMF. When
.I alua_enabled
is set to
.BR B_FALSE ,
.I node
is ignored; otherwise,
.I node
must be set to 0
or 1. The
.I node
setting must be different for each node in a paired
configuration. This function should be called only after the STMF proxy door
service has been initialized (see
.BR stmfInitProxyDoor (3STMF)).
When the
ALUA state is enabled, all STMF logical units will be registered on the peer
node as standby logical units. The standby logical units can then be
exported to any SCSI initiator using the existing mechanisms in STMF,
.BR stmfAddViewEntry (3STMF)
or the add-view subcommand of
.BR stmfadm (1M).
If ALUA mode is already enabled, it is valid to call this
interface again with enabled set to
.BR B_TRUE .
This action would result
in a re-initialization of the ALUA mode and can be used during recovery of a
failed peer node.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Either
.I alua_enabled
or
.I node
was incorrectly set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stmfadm (1M),
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR stmfAddViewEntry (3STMF),
.BR stmfInitProxyDoor (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
