'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfSetPersistMethod 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetPersistMethod \- set persistence method for the stmf service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetPersistMethod\fR(\fBuint8_t\fR \fIpersistType\fR, \fBboolean_t\fR \fIserviceSet\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I persistType
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The requested persistence setting. Can be either
.B STMF_PERSIST_SMF
or
.BR STMF_PERSIST_NONE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I serviceSet
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Set to indicate whether the setting should persist on the stmf service.
When set to
.BR B_FALSE ,
this setting is only applicable for the duration
of the current library open or until a subsequent call is made to change the
setting.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfSetPersistMethod()
function sets the persistence method for
stmf.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_PERSIST_TYPE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The
.I persistType
argument is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
