'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfOfflineLogicalUnit 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfOfflineLogicalUnit \- take offline a logical unit that is currently in
the online state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfOfflineLogicalUnit\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fIlogicalUnit\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I logicalUnit
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The identifier of the logical unit to offline.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfOfflineLogicalUnit()
function takes offline a logical unit
that is currently in the online state. Once in the offline state, the
logical unit will no longer be capable of servicing requests in the
system.
.sp
.LP
This API call can be used to take offline a logical unit for servicing.
Once the logical unit is offline, an initiator port that attempts to issue
any SCSI commands to the offlined logical unit will receive a check
condition. For purposes of the REPORT LUNS command, the logical unit will no
longer appear in the logical unit inventory for any initiator ports to which
it is currently mapped by one or more view entries.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_BUSY
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The device is currently busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
