'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfPostProxyMsg 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfPostProxyMsg \- post proxy message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfPostProxyMsg\fR(\fBint\fR \fIhdl\fR, \fBvoid *\fIbuf\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hdl
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
handle returned in a previous successful call to
.BR stmfInitProxyDoor (3STMF)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I buf
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
pointer to a buffer to received from peer node
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I buflen
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
length of
.I buf
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfPostProxyMsg()
function passes down to the STMF proxy service
the message received from the peer node's STMF proxy service door upcall.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The
.I buf
argument is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_POST_MSG_FAILED
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The attempt to post the message failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stmfInitProxyDoor (3STMF),
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
