'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfRemoveFromTargetGroup 3STMF "15 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfRemoveFromTargetGroup \- remove a target port from an target port
group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfRemoveFromTargetGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fItargetGroupName\fR
     \fBstmfDevid *\fItargetName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I targetGroupName
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The name of the target  port group from which the specified
\fItargetGroupName\fR is being removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I targetName
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The device identifier of the target port to remove from the specified
target port group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfRemoveFromTargetGroup()\fR function removes a target port from
an target port group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified
.I targetGroupName
was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_MEMBER_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified
.I targetName
was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_TG_ONLINE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified
.I targetName
must be offline.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
