'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfImportLu 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfImportLu \- import a logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfImportLu\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fIdType\fR, \fBchar *\fIfname\fR, \fBstmfGuid *\fIluGuid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dtype
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
the device type of the logical unit being imported. Only
.B STMF_DISK
is
currently supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fname
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
the filename of the logical unit being imported
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I luGuid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
pointer to a
.B stmfGuid
allocated by the caller. On success, this
contains the
.B guid
of the imported logical unit. If
.I luGuid
is
.IR NULL ,
this parameter is ignored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfImportLu()
function imports a previously created logical
unit. The
.I fname
argument must be set to the filename where the
metadata for the logical unit is stored. See \fBstmfCreateLu\fR(3STMF).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The
.I dType
or
.I fname
argument was invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_META_FILE_NAME
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The specified meta file could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_DATA_FILE_NAME
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The data file could not be accessed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stmfCreateLu (3STMF),
.BR attributes (5)
