'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfGetHostGroupMembers 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetHostGroupMembers \- retrieve the properties of the specified host
group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetHostGroupMembers\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fIhostGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfGroupProperties **\fIgroupProperties\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hostGroupName
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
The name of the host group whose member list is being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I groupProperties
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
A pointer to a pointer to an
.B stmfGroupProperties
structure. On
successful return, this will contain the properties for the specified
.IR hostGroupName .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfGetHostGroupMembers()
function retrieves the properties of
the specified host group. The caller should call
.BR stmfFreeMemory (3STMF)
when this list is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The specified
.I hostGroupName
was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR stmfFreeMemory (3STMF),
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
