'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stmfGetPersistMethod 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetPersistMethod \- get the current persistence method for stmf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetPersistMethod\fR(\fBuint8_t *\fIpersistType\fR, \fBboolean_t\fR \fIserviceState\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I persistType
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
On success, contains the current persistence setting based on
.IR serviceState .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I serviceState
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
When set to
.BR B_TRUE ,
.I persistType
will contain the persist method
currently set for the service. When set to
.BR B_FALSE ,
.I persistType
will contain the persist method for the current library open.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B stmfGetPersistMethod()
function retrieves the current persistent
method setting for the service or for a given library open. When set to
.BR B_TRUE ,
retrieves the setting from the service.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_STATUS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B STMF_ERROR_PERSIST_TYPE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Unable to retrieve persist type from service.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libstmf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
