'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tnfctl_close 3TNF "4 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "TNF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tnfctl_close \- close a tnfctl handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ltnfctl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <tnf/tnfctl.h>
\fBtnfctl_errcode_t\fR \fBtnfctl_close\fR(\fBtnfctl_handle_t *\fIhndl\fR,
     \fBtnfctl_targ_op_t\fR \fIaction\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B tnfctl_close()
is used to close a tnfctl handle and to free up the
memory associated with the handle.  When the handle is closed, the tracing
state and the states of the probes are not changed.
.B tnfctl_close()
can
be used to close handles in any mode, that is, whether they were created by
.BR tnfctl_internal_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_pid_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_exec_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_indirect_open (3TNF),
or
.BR tnfctl_kernel_open (3TNF).
.sp
.LP
The
.I action
argument is only used in direct mode, that is, if
.I hndl
was created by
.BR tnfctl_exec_open (3TNF)
or
.BR tnfctl_pid_open (3TNF).
In direct mode,
.I action
specifies whether
the process will proceed, be killed, or remain suspended.
.I action
may
have the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_TARG_DEFAULT
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Kills the target process if
.I hndl
was created with
.BR tnfctl_exec_open (3TNF),
but lets it continue if it was created with
.BR tnfctl_pid_open (3TNF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_TARG_KILL
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Kills the target process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_TARG_RESUME
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Allows the target process to continue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_TARG_SUSPEND
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Leaves the target process suspended.  This is not a job control suspend. It
is possible to attach to the process again with a debugger or with the
.BR tnfctl_pid_open (3TNF)
interface.  The target process can also be
continued with
.BR prun (1).
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B tnfctl_close()
returns
.B TNFCTL_ERR_NONE
upon success.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The following error codes apply to
.BR tnfctl_close() :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_BADARG
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
A bad argument was sent in
.IR action .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_INTERNAL
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnfc
_
MT LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR prex (1),
.BR prun (1),
.BR TNF_PROBE (3TNF),
.BR libtnfctl (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_exec_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_indirect_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_kernel_open (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_pid_open (3TNF),
.BR tracing (3TNF),
.BR attributes (5)
