'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tnfctl_register_funcs 3TNF "1 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "TNF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tnfctl_register_funcs \- register callbacks for probe creation and
destruction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ltnfctl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <tnf/tnfctl.h>

\fBtnfctl_errcode_t\fR \fBtnfctl_register_funcs\fR(\fBtnfctl_handle_t *\fIhndl\fR, \fBvoid * (*\fIcreate_func\fR)
     (tnfctl_handle_t *, tnfctl_probe_t *), \fBvoid (*\fIdestroy_func\fR)(void *));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The function
.B tnfctl_register_funcs()
is used to store client-specific
data on a per-probe basis.  It registers a creator and a destructor function
with
.IR hndl ,
either of which can be
.B NULL.
The creator function is
called for every probe that currently exists in
.I hndl.
Every time a new
probe is discovered, that is brought in by
.BR dlopen (3C),
.I create_func
is called.
.sp
.LP
The return value of the creator function is  stored as part of the probe
state and can be retrieved by \fBtnfctl_probe_state_get\fR(3TNF) in the
member field
.IR client_registered_data .
.sp
.LP
.I destroy_func
is called for every probe handle that is freed.  This
does not necessarily happen at the time \fBdlclose\fR(3C) frees the shared
object. The probe handles are freed only when
.I hndl
is closed by
.BR tnfctl_close (3TNF).
If
.B tnfctl_register_funcs()
is called a
second time for the same
.I hndl,
then the previously registered
destructor function is called first for  all of the probes.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B tnfctl_register_funcs()
returns
.B TNFCTL_ERR_NONE
upon success.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_INTERNAL
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnfc
_
MT LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR prex (1),
.BR TNF_PROBE (3TNF),
.BR dlclose (3C),
.BR dlopen (3C),
.BR libtnfctl (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_close (3TNF),
.BR tnfctl_probe_state_get (3TNF),
.BR tracing (3TNF),
.BR tnf_kernel_probes (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
