'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tnfctl_internal_open 3TNF "1 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "TNF Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tnfctl_internal_open \- create handle for internal process probe control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-ltnfctl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <tnf/tnfctl.h>



\fBtnfctl_errcode_t\fR \fBtnfctl_internal_open\fR(\fBtnfctl_handle_t **\fIret_val\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B tnfctl_internal_open()
returns in
.I ret_val
a pointer to an
opaque handle that can be used to control probes in the same process as the
caller (internal process probe control). The process must have
.B libtnfprobe.so.1
loaded. Probes in libraries that are brought in by
.BR dlopen (3C)
will be visible after the library has been opened. Probes
in libraries closed by a \fBdlclose\fR(3C) will not be visible after the
library has been disassociated.  See the
.B NOTES
section for more
details.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B tnfctl_internal_open()
returns
.B TNFCTL_ERR_NONE
upon success.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_ALLOCFAIL
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
A memory allocation failure occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_BUSY
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Another client is already tracing this program (internally or
externally).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_NOLIBTNFPROBE
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
.B libtnfprobe.so.1
is not linked in the target process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNFCTL_ERR_INTERNAL
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWtnfc
_
MT LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld (1),
.BR prex (1),
.BR TNF_PROBE (3TNF),
.BR dlopen (3C),
.BR dlclose (3C),
.BR libtnfctl (3TNF),
.BR tracing (3TNF),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B libtnfctl
interposes on
.BR dlopen "(3C) and"
.BR dlclose (3C)
in
order to be notified of libraries being dynamically opened and closed. This
interposition is necessary for internal process probe control to update its
list of probes. In these interposition functions, a lock is acquired to
synchronize on traversal of the library list maintained by the runtime
linker. To avoid deadlocking on this lock, \fBtnfctl_internal_open()\fR
should not be called from within the init section of a library that can be
opened by
.BR dlopen (3C).
.sp
.LP
Since interposition does not work as expected when a library is opened
dynamically,
.B tnfctl_internal_open()
should not be used if the client
opened
.B libtnfctl
through
.BR dlopen (3C).
In this case, the client
program should be built with a static dependency on
.B libtnfctl.
Also,
if the client program is explicitly linking in
.BR -ldl ,
it should link
.B -ltnfctl
before
.BR -ldl .
.sp
.LP
Probes in filtered libraries (see
.BR ld (1))
will not be seen because the
filtee (backing library) is loaded lazily on the first symbol reference and
not at process startup or
.BR dlopen "(3C) time. A workaround is to call"
.BR tnfctl_check_libs (3TNF)
once the caller is sure that the filtee has
been loaded.
