'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cpc_event_diff 3CPC "28 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "CPU Performance Counters Library Functions"
.SH NAME
cpc_event_diff, cpc_event_accum \- simple difference and accumulate
operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \(milcpc [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libcpc.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBcpc_event_accum\fR(\fBcpc_event_t *\fIaccum\fR, \fBcpc_event_t *\fIevent\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcpc_event_diff\fR(\fBcpc_event_t *\fIdiff\fR, \fBcpc_event_t *\fIafter\fR,
     \fBcpc_event_t *\fIbefore\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpc_event_accum()
and
.B cpc_event_diff()
functions perform
common accumulate and difference operations on
.BR cpc_event "(3CPC) data"
structures. Use of these functions increases program portability, since
structure members are not referenced directly .
.SS "\fBcpc_event_accum()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpc_event_accum()
function adds the
.B ce_pic
fields of
.I event
into the corresponding fields of
.IR accum .
The
.BR ce_hrt
field of
.I accum
is set to the later of the times in
.I event
and
.IR accum .
.SS "SPARC:"
.sp
.LP
The function adds the contents of the
.B ce_tick
field of
.IR event
into the corresponding field of
.IR accum .
.SS "x86:"
.sp
.LP
The function adds the contents of the
.B ce_tsc
field of
.IR event
into the corresponding field of
.IR accum .
.SS "\fBcpc_event_diff()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpc_event_diff()
function places the difference between the
.B ce_pic
fields of \fIafter\fR and \fIbefore\fR and places them in the
corresponding field of
.IR diff .
The
.B ce_hrt
field of
.I diff
is
set to the
.B ce_hrt
field of
.IR after .
.SS "SPARC:"
.sp
.LP
Additionally, the function computes the difference between the
.B ce_tick
fields of
.I after
and
.IR before ,
and places it in the
corresponding field of
.BR diff .
.SS "x86:"
.sp
.LP
Additionally, the function computes the difference between the \fBce_tsc\fR
fields of
.I after
and
.IR before ,
and places it in the corresponding
field of
.IR diff .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cpc (3CPC),
.BR cpc_buf_add (3CPC),
.BR cpc_buf_sub (3CPC),
.BR cpc_event (3CPC),
.BR libcpc (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B cpc_event_accum()
and
.B cpc_event_diff()
functions exist for
binary compatibility only. Source containing these functions will not
compile. These functions are obsolete and might be removed in a future
release. Applications should use \fBcpc_buf_add\fR(3CPC) and
.BR cpc_buf_sub (3CPC)
instead.
