'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ASSERT 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ASSERT, assert \- expression verification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/debug.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBASSERT\fR(\fIEX\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I EX
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
boolean expression.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ASSERT()
macro checks to see if the expression
.I EX
is true. If
it is not, then
.B ASSERT()
causes an error message to be logged to the
console and the system to panic.
.B ASSERT()
works only if the preprocessor
symbol
.B DEBUG
is defined.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ASSERT()
macro can be used from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
