'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bcmp 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
bcmp \- compare two byte arrays
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBbcmp\fR(\fBconst void *\fIs1\fR, \fBconst void *\fIs2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I s1
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the first character string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I s2
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the second character string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I len
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Number of bytes to be compared.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bcmp()
function compares two byte arrays of length
.IR len .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B bcmp()
function returns
.B 0
if the arrays are identical, or
.B 1
if they are not.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B bcmp()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR strcmp (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Unlike
.BR strcmp (9F),
.B bcmp()
does not terminate when it encounters
a null byte.
