'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bzero 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
bzero \- clear memory for a given number of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBbzero\fR(\fBvoid *\fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIbytes\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I addr
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Starting virtual address of memory to be cleared.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I bytes
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The number of bytes to clear starting at
.IR addr .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bzero()
function clears a contiguous portion of memory by filling
it with zeros.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B bzero()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bcopy (9F),
.BR clrbuf (9F),
.BR kmem_zalloc (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The address range specified must be within the kernel space. No range
checking is done.  If an address outside of the kernel space is selected,
the driver may corrupt the system in an unpredictable way.
