'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH canput 9F "11 Apr 1991" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
canput \- test for room in a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBint\fR \fBcanput\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIq\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to the message queue.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B canput()
searches through the stream (starting at
.IR q )
until it
finds a queue containing a service routine where the message can be
enqueued, or until it reaches the end of the stream.  If found, the queue
containing the service routine is tested to see if there is room for a
message in the queue.
.sp
.LP
\fBcanputnext(\fIq\fB)\fR and \fBbcanputnext(\fIq\fB,\fI
pri\fB)\fR should always be used in preference to
\fBcanput(\fIq\fB\(->q_next)\fR and
\fBbcanput(\fIq\fB\(->q_next,\fI pri\fB)\fR respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the message queue is not full.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
If the queue is full.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B canput()
can be called from user or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bcanput (9F),
.BR bcanputnext (9F),
.BR canputnext (9F),
.BR putbq (9F),
.BR putnext (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Drivers are responsible for both testing a queue with
.B canput()
and
refraining from placing a message on the queue if
.B canput()
fails.
