'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cmn_err 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
cmn_err, vcmn_err, zcmn_err \- display an error message or panic the
system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/cmn_err.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBcmn_err\fR(\fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBchar *\fIformat\fR.\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/varargs.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBvcmn_err\fR(\fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBchar *\fIformat\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIap\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBzcmn_err\fR(\fBzoneid_t\fR \fIzoneid\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBchar *\fIformat\fR.\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.SS "cmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I level
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A constant indicating the severity of the error condition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I format
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Message to be displayed.
.RE

.SS "vcmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.LP
The
.B vcmn_err()
function takes
.I level
and
.I format
as
described for
.BR cmn_err() ,
but its third argument is different:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ap
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Variable argument list passed to the function.
.RE

.SS "zcmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.LP
The
.B zcmn_err()
function works exactly like
.BR cmn_err() ,
but
includes an additional argument:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I zoneid
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Zone to which log messages should be directed. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "cmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.LP
The
.B cmn_err()
function displays a specified message on the console.
.B cmn_err()
can also panic the system. When the system panics, it
attempts to save recent changes to data, display a "panic message" on the
console, attempt to write a core file, and halt system processing. See the
.B CE_PANIC
.I level
below.
.sp
.LP
.I level
is a constant indicating the severity of the error condition.
The four severity levels are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CE_CONT
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used to continue another message or to display an informative message not
associated with an error. Note that multiple
.B CE_CONT
messages without a
newline may or may not appear on the system console or in the system log as a
single line message. A single line message may be produced by constructing
the message with \fBsprintf\fR(9F) or \fBvsprintf\fR(9F) before calling
.BR cmn_err() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CE_NOTE
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used to display a message preceded with
.BR NOTICE .
This message is used
to report system events that do not necessarily require user action, but may
interest the system administrator. For example, a message saying that a
sector on a disk needs to be accessed repeatedly before it can be accessed
correctly might be noteworthy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CE_WARN
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used to display a message preceded with
.BR WARNING .
This message is used
to report system events that require immediate attention, such as those where
if an action is not taken, the system may panic. For example, when a
peripheral device does not initialize correctly, this level should be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CE_PANIC
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Used to display a message preceded with \fB"panic"\fR, and to panic the
system. Drivers should specify this level only under the most severe
conditions or when debugging a driver. A valid use of this level is when the
system cannot continue to function. If the error is recoverable, or not
essential to continued system operation, do not panic the system.
.RE

.sp
.LP
.I format
is the message to be displayed. It is a character string which
may contain plain characters and conversion specifications. By default, the
message is sent both to the system console and to the system log.
.sp
.LP
Each conversion specification in \fIformat\fR is introduced by the \fB%\fR
character, after which the following appear in sequence:
.sp
.LP
An optional decimal digit specifying a minimum field width for numeric
conversion. The converted value will be right-justified and padded with
leading zeroes if it has fewer characters than the minimum.
.sp
.LP
An optional
.B l
(\fBll\fR) specifying that a following
.BR d ,
.BR D ,
.BR o ,
.BR O ,
.BR x ,
.BR X ,
or
.B u
conversion character applies
to a
.B long
(\fBlong long\fR) integer argument. An \fBl\fR (\fBll\fR)
before any other conversion character is ignored.
.sp
.LP
A character indicating the type of conversion to be applied:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBd\fR,\fBD\fR,\fBo\fR,\fBO\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBX\fR,\fBu\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The integer argument is converted to signed decimal (\fBd\fR,
.BR D ),
unsigned octal (\fBo\fR,
.BR O ),
unsigned hexadecimal (\fBx\fR,
.BR X ),
or unsigned decimal
.RB ( u ),
respectively, and displayed. The letters
.B abcdef
are used for
.B x
and
.B X
conversion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B c
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The character value of the argument is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B b
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The
.B %b
conversion specification allows bit values to be displayed
meaningfully. Each
.B %b
takes an integer value and a format string from
the argument list. The first character of the format string should be the
output base encoded as a control character. This base is used to display the
integer argument. The remaining groups of characters in the format string
consist of a bit number (between 1 and 32, also encoded as a control
character) and the next characters (up to the next control character or
\&'\e0') give the name of the bit field. The string corresponding to the bit
fields set in the integer argument is displayed after the numerical value.
See EXAMPLE section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B p
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The argument is taken to be a pointer; the value of the pointer is displayed
in unsigned hexadecimal. The display format is equivalent to
.BR %lx .
To
avoid lint warnings, cast pointers to type
.B "void *"
when using the
.B %p
format specifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The argument is taken to be a string (character pointer), and characters
from the string are displayed until a null character is encountered. If the
character pointer is
.IR NULL ,
the string
.B "<null string>"
is used in
its place.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Copy a
.BR % ;
no argument is converted.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The first character in
.I format
affects where the message will be
written:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B !
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The message goes only to the system log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ^
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The message goes only to the console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ?
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
If
.I level
is also
.B CE_CONT,
the message is always sent to the
system log, but is only written to the console when the system has been
booted in verbose mode. See \fBkernel\fR(1M). If neither condition is met,
the '?\|' character has no effect and is simply ignored.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR syslogd "(1M) to determine where the system log is written."
.sp
.LP
The
.B cmn_err()
function sends log messages to the log of the global
zone.
.B cmn_err()
appends a \fB\en\fR to each
.IR format ,
except when
.I level
is
.BR CE_CONT .
.SS "vcmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.LP
The
.B vcmn_err()
function is identical to
.B cmn_err()
except that
its last argument,
.IR ap ,
is a pointer to a variable list of arguments.
.I ap
contains the list of arguments used by the conversion specifications
in
.IR format .
.I ap
must be initialized by calling
.BR va_start (9F).
.BR va_end (9F)
is used to clean up and must be called after each traversal
of the list. Multiple traversals of the argument list, each bracketed by
.BR va_start (9F)
and
.BR va_end "(9F), are possible."
.SS "zcmn_err(\|)"
.sp
.LP
With the exception of its first argument
.RB ( zoneid ),
.B zcmn_err()
is
identical to
.BR cmn_err() .
.B zoneid
is the numeric ID of the zone to
which the message should be directed. Note that
.B zoneid
only has an
effect if the message is sent to the system log. Using
.B zoneid
will
cause messages to be sent to the log associated with the specified local zone
rather than the log in the global zone. This is accomplished by the message
being received and processed by the
.BR syslogd "(1M) process running in the"
specified zone instead of the one running in the global zone. You can
retrieve a process zone ID from its credential structure using
.BR crgetzoneid (9F).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None. However, if an unknown
.I level
is passed to
.BR cmn_err() ,
the
following panic error message is displayed:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
panic: unknown level in cmn_err (level=\fIlevel\fR, msg=format)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B cmn_err()
function can be called from user, kernel, interrupt, or
high-level interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR cmn_err()
.sp
.LP
This first example shows how
.B cmn_err()
can record tracing and
debugging information only in the system log (lines 17); display problems
with a device only on the system console (line 23); or display problems with
the device on both the system console and in the system log (line 28).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
1  struct  reg {
2          uchar_t data;
3          uchar_t csr;
4  };
5
6  struct  xxstate {
7          .\|.\|.
8          dev_info_t *dip;
9          struct reg *regp;
10          .\|.\|.
11  };
12
13  dev_t dev;
14  struct xxstate *xsp;
15    .\|.\|.
16  #ifdef DEBUG    /* in debugging mode, log function call */
17     cmn_err(CE_CONT, "!%s%d: xxopen function called.",
18          ddi_binding_name(xsp->dip), getminor(dev));
19  #endif  /* end DEBUG */
20    .\|.\|.
21  /* display device power failure on system console */
22     if ((xsp->regp->csr & POWER) == OFF)
23          cmn_err(CE_NOTE, "^OFF.",
24               ddi_binding_name(xsp->dip), getminor(dev));
25    .\|.\|.
26  /* display warning if device has bad VTOC */
27     if (xsp->regp->csr & BADVTOC)
28          cmn_err(CE_WARN, "%s%d: xxopen: Bad VTOC.",
29               ddi_binding_name(xsp->dip), getminor(dev));
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Using the %b conversion specification
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to use the
.B %b
conversion specification. Because
of the leading '?\|' character in the format string, this message will always
be logged, but it will only be displayed when the kernel is booted in verbose
mode.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
cmn_err(CE_CONT, "?reg=0x%b\en", regval, "\e020\e3Intr\e2Err\e1Enable");
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Using
.IR regval
.sp
.LP
When
.I regval
is set to (decimal)
.BR 13 ,
the following message would
be displayed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
reg=0xd<Intr,,Enable>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Error Routine
.sp
.LP
This example shows an error reporting routine which accepts a variable
number of arguments and displays a single line error message both in the
system log and on the system console. Note the use of
.B vsprintf()
to
construct the error message before calling
.BR cmn_err() .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <sys/varargs.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>
#define MAX_MSG 256;

void
xxerror(dev_info_t *dip, int level, const char *fmt, .\|.\|.\|)
{
    va_list     ap;
    int         instance;
    char        buf[MAX_MSG], *name;

instance = ddi_get_instance(dip);
name = ddi_binding_name(dip);

/* format buf using fmt and arguments contained in ap */

va_start(ap, fmt);
vsprintf(buf, fmt, ap);
va_end(ap);

/* pass formatted string to cmn_err(9F) */

cmn_err(level, "%s%d: %s", name, instance, buf);

}
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 5
Log to Current Zone
.sp
.LP
This example shows how messages can be sent to  the log of the zone in which
a thread is currently running, when applicable. Note that most
hardware-related messages should instead be sent to the global zone using
.BR cmn_err() .

.sp
.in +2
.nf
zcmn_err(crgetzoneid(ddi_get_cred()), CE_NOTE, "out of processes0);
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dmesg (1M),
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR printf (3C),
.BR zones (5),
.BR ddi_binding_name (9F),
.BR ddi_cred (9F),
.BR sprintf (9F),
.BR va_arg (9F),
.BR va_end (9F),
.BR va_start (9F),
.BR vsprintf (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The
.B cmn_err()
function with the
.B CE_CONT
argument can be used by
driver developers as a driver code debugging tool. However, using
.B cmn_err()
in this capacity can change system timing characteristics.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Messages of arbitrary length can be generated using
.BR cmn_err() ,
but if
the call to
.B cmn_err()
is made from high-level interrupt context and
insufficient memory is available to create a buffer of the specified size,
the message will be truncated to
.B LOG_MSGSIZE
bytes (see
<\fBsys/log.h\fR>). For this reason, callers of \fBcmn_err()\fR that require
complete and accurate message generation should post down from high-level
interrupt context before calling
.BR cmn_err() .
