'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_Put8 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Put8, csx_Put16, csx_Put32, csx_Put64 \- write to device register
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_Put8\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBuint8_t\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_Put16\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBuint16_t\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_Put32\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_Put64\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBuint64_t\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.BR DDI )
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The access handle returned from
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F),
or
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I offset
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The offset in bytes from the base of the mapped resource.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The data to be written to the device.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions generate a write of various sizes to the mapped memory or
device register.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR csx_Put8() ,
.BR csx_Put16() ,
.BR csx_Put32() ,
and
.B csx_Put64()
functions write 8 bits, 16 bits, 32 bits, and 64 bits of
data, respectively, to the device address represented by the handle,
.IR handle ,
at an offset in bytes represented by the offset,
.IR offset .

.sp
.LP
Data that consists of more than one byte will automatically be translated
to maintain a consistent view between the host and the device based on the
encoded information in the data access handle. The translation may involve
byte swapping if the host and the device have incompatible endian
characteristics.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F),
.BR csx_Get8 (9F),
.BR csx_GetMappedAddr (9F),
.BR csx_RepGet8 (9F),
.BR csx_RepPut8 (9F),
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F)
.sp
.LP
.IR "PC Card 95 Standard" ,
PCMCIA/JEIDA
