'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_GetMappedAddr 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_GetMappedAddr \- return mapped virtual address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_GetMappedAddr\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBvoid **\fIaddr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The access handle returned from
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F),
or
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I addr
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The virtual or
.B I/O
port number represented by the handle.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function returns the mapped virtual address or the mapped \fBI/O \fRport number represented by the handle,
.IR handle .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The resulting address or
.B I/O
port number can be directly accessed by
the caller.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
The resulting address or
.B I/O
port number can not be directly accessed
by the caller; the caller must make all accesses to the mapped area via the
common access functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F),
.BR csx_Get8 (9F),
.BR csx_Put8 (9F),
.BR csx_RepGet8 (9F),
.BR csx_RepPut8 (9F),
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I PC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA
