'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_ResetFunction 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_ResetFunction \- reset a function on a PC card
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_ResetFunction\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBreset_function_t *\fIrf\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.BR DDI )
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ch
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Client handle returned from
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rf
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B reset_function_t
structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B csx_ResetFunction()
requests that the specified function on the
.B PC
card initiate a reset operation.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of
.B reset_function_t
are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 uint32_t     Socket;        /* socket number */
  uint32_t     Attributes;    /* reset attributes  */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Socket
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Not used in Solaris, but for portability with other Card Services
implementations, it should be set to the logical socket number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Attributes
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Must be
.BR 0 .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Card Services has noted the reset request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_IN_USE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
This Card Services implementation does not permit configured cards to be
reset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_BAD_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CARD
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PC
card in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_BAD_SOCKET
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Specified socket or function number is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_event_handler (9E),
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F)
.sp
.LP
.IR "PC Card 95 Standard" ,
PCMCIA/JEIDA
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B csx_ResetFunction()
has not been implemented in this release and
always returns
.BR CS_IN_USE .
