'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_Parse_CISTPL_CONFIG 9F "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_CONFIG \- parse Configuration tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_CONFIG\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_config_t *\fIcc\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ch
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Client handle returned from
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tu
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B tuple_t
structure (see
.BR tuple (9S))
returned by a
call to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cc
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_config_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_CONFIG\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Configuration tuple,
.B CISTPL_CONFIG,
into a
form usable by
.B PC
Card drivers. The
.B CISTPL_CONFIG
tuple is used
to describe the general characteristics of 16-bit
.B PC
Cards containing
\fBI/O\fR devices or using custom interfaces. It may also describe \fBPC
\fRCards, including Memory Only cards, which exceed nominal power supply
specifications, or which need descriptions of their power requirements or
other information.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_config_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     present;     /* register present flags */
uint32_t     nr;          /* number of config registers found */
uint32_t     hr;          /* highest config register index found */
uint32_t     regs[CISTPL_CONFIG_MAX_CONFIG_REGS];    /* reg offsets */
uint32_t     base;        /* base offset of config registers */
uint32_t     last;        /* last config index */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B present
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This field indicates which configuration registers are present on the \fBPC
\fRCard.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_OPTION_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Configuration Option Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_STATUS_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Configuration Status Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_PINREPL_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Pin Replacement Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_COPY_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Copy Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_EXSTAT_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Extended Status Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_IOBASE0_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
IO Base 0 Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_IOBASE1_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
IO Base 1 Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_IOBASE2_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
IO Base2 Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_IOBASE3_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
IO Base3 Register present
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CONFIG_IOLIMIT_REG_PRESENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
IO Limit Register present
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nr
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This field specifies the number of configuration registers that are present
on the
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hr
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This field specifies the highest configuration register number that is
present on the
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B regs
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This array contains the offset from the start of Attribute Memory space for
each configuration register that is present on the
.B PC
Card. If a
configuration register is not present on the
.B PC
Card, the value in the
corresponding entry in the
.B regs
array is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B base
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This field contains the offset from the start of Attribute Memory space to
the base of the
.B PC
Card configuration register space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B last
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This field contains the value of the last valid configuration index for
this
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_BAD_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CARD
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PC
Card in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CIS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_GetFirstTuple (9F),
.BR csx_GetTupleData (9F),
.BR csx_Parse_CISTPL_CFTABLE_ENTRY (9F),
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F),
.BR csx_ValidateCIS (9F),
.BR tuple (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I PC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBPC\fR Card drivers should not attempt to use configurations beyond the
"last" member in the \fBcistpl_config_t\fR structure.
