'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A 9F "24 Jan 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A, csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_C \- parse the Long
Link A and C tuples
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t *\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_C\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t *\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ch
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Client handle returned from
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tu
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B tuple_t
structure (see
.BR tuple (9S))
returned by a
call to
.BR csx_GetFirstTuple "(9F) or"
.BR csx_GetNextTuple (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pt
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B cistpl_longlink_ac_t
structure which contains the parsed
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_A
or
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_C
tuple information upon
return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Long Link A and C tuples, \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR
and
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_A,
into a form usable by
.B PC
Card drivers.
.sp
.LP
The
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_A
and
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_C
tuples provide
links to Attribute and Common Memory.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of
.B cistpl_longlink_ac_t
are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t   flags;
uint32_t   tpll_addr;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B flags
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
This field indicates the type of memory:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_AC_AM
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
long link to Attribute Memory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CISTPL_LONGLINK_AC_CM
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
long link to Common Memory
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B tpll_addr
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
This field provides the offset from the beginning of the specified address
space.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_BAD_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CARD
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
No
.B PC
Card in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CIS
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_GetFirstTuple (9F),
.BR csx_GetTupleData (9F),
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F),
.BR csx_ValidateCIS (9F),
.BR tuple (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I PC Card 95 Standard,
PCMCIA/JEIDA
