'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_GetHandleOffset 9F "16 May 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_GetHandleOffset \- return current access handle offset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>

\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_GetHandleOffset\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t *\fIoffset\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Access handle returned by
.BR csx_RequestIRQ "(9F) or"
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I offset
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B uint32_t
in which the current access handle offset is
returned.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function returns the current offset for the access handle,
.IR handle ,
in
.IR offset .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestIRQ (9F),
.BR csx_SetHandleOffset (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I PC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA
