'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_FreeHandle 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_FreeHandle \- free access handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_FreeHandle\fR(\fBacc_handle_t *\fIhandle\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The access handle returned from
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F),
or
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function frees the handle,
.IR handle .
If the handle was created by
the
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F)
function, this function will free the storage
associated with this handle, but will not modify any resources that the
original handle refers to. If the handle was created by a common access
setup function, this function will release the resources associated with
this handle.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_DupHandle (9F),
.BR csx_RequestIO (9F),
.BR csx_RequestWindow (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I PC Card95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA
