'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH csx_Parse_CISTPL_ORG 9F "24 Jan 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_ORG \- parse the Data Organization tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_ORG\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_org_t *\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris
.B DDI
Specific (Solaris
.B DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ch
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Client handle returned from
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tu
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B tuple_t
structure (see
.BR tuple (9S))
returned by a
call to
.BR csx_GetFirstTuple "(9F) or"
.BR csx_GetNextTuple (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pt
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B cistpl_org_t
structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_ORG\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Data Organization tuple,
.B CISTPL_ORG,
into a
form usable by
.B PC
Card drivers.
.sp
.LP
The
.B CISTPL_ORG
tuple provides a text description of the
organization.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of
.B cistpl_org_t
are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t   type;
char       desc[CIS_MAX_TUPLE_DATA_LEN];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field indicates type of data organization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdesc[CIS_MAX_TUPLE_DATA_LEN]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field provides the text description of this organization.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_BAD_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CARD
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PC
Card in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_NO_CIS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on
.B PC
Card.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
No
.B PCMCIA
hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR csx_GetFirstTuple (9F),
.BR csx_GetTupleData (9F),
.BR csx_RegisterClient (9F),
.BR csx_ValidateCIS (9F),
.BR tuple (9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard,\fR PCMCIA/JEIDA
