'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_get_cred 9F "11 Apr 1991" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_cred \- returns a pointer to the credential structure of the
caller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBcred_t *\fBddi_get_cred\fR(void)
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_cred()
returns a pointer to the user credential structure of
the caller.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_cred()
returns a pointer to the caller's credential
structure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_cred()
can be called from user context only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
