'\" te
.\"  All Rights Reserved  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun
.\" Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_node_name 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_node_name \- return the devinfo node name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBchar *\fBddi_node_name\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A pointer the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_node_name()
function returns the device node name contained
in the
.B dev_info
node pointed to by
.IR dip .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_node_name()
function returns the device node name contained
in the
.B dev_info
structure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_node_name()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_binding_name (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
