'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_dma_numwin 9F "29 Sep 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_numwin \- retrieve number of DMA windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_numwin\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint_t *\fInwinp\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B DMA
handle previously allocated by a call to
.BR ddi_dma_alloc_handle (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nwinp
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Upon a successful return,
.I nwinp
will contain the number of
.B DMA
windows for this object.
.RE

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_numwin()
returns the number of
.B DMA
windows for a
.B DMA
object if partial resource allocation was permitted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_numwin()
returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Successfully filled in the number of
.B DMA
windows.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.B DMA
windows are not activated.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_numwin()
can be called from user, kernel, or interrupt
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_alloc_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_unbind_handle (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
