'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_get_pid 9F "18 Feb 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_pid \- returns the process \fBID\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBpid_t\fR \fBddi_get_pid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_pid()
obtains the process
.B ID
of the current process.
This value can be used to allow only a select process to perform a certain
operation. It can also be used to determine whether a device context belongs
to the current process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_pid()
returns the process
.BR ID .
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
 This routine can be called from user context only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR drv_getparm (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
