'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_get_lbolt 9F "18 Feb 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_lbolt \- returns the value of lbolt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBclock_t\fR \fBddi_get_lbolt\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_lbolt()
returns the value of
.B lbolt
where
.B lbolt
is an
integer that represents the number of clock ticks since the last system reboot.
This value is used as a counter or timer inside the system kernel. The tick
frequency can be determined by using
.BR drv_usectohz "(9F) which converts"
microseconds into clock ticks.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_lbolt()
returns the value of
.BR lbolt .
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
 This routine can be called from any context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_get_time (9F),
.BR drv_getparm (9F),
.BR drv_usectohz (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
