'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_btop 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_btop, ddi_btopr, ddi_ptob \- page size conversions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBunsigned long\fR \fBddi_btop\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*dip\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIbytes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunsigned long\fR \fBddi_btopr\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*dip\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIbytes\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunsigned long\fR \fBddi_ptob\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*dip\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIpages\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This set of routines use the parent nexus driver to perform conversions in
page size units.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_btop()
function converts the given number of bytes to the
number of memory pages that it corresponds to, rounding down in the case
that the byte count is not a page multiple.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_btopr()
function converts the given number of bytes to the
number of memory pages that it corresponds to, rounding up in the case that
the byte count is not a page multiple.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_ptob()
function converts the given number of pages to the
number of bytes that it corresponds to.
.sp
.LP
Because bus nexus may possess their own hardware address translation
facilities, these routines should be used in preference to the corresponding
DDI/DKI routines
.BR btop (9F),
.BR btopr (9F),
and
.BR ptob (9F),
which
only deal in terms of the pagesize of the main system MMU.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_btop()
and
.B ddi_btopr()
functions return the number of
corresponding pages.
.B ddi_ptob()
returns the corresponding number of
bytes. There are no error return values.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Find the size (in bytes) of one page
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pagesize = ddi_ptob(dip, 1L);
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR btop (9F),
.BR btopr (9F),
.BR ptob (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
