'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_dev_nintrs 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_dev_nintrs \- return the number of interrupt specifications a device
has
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dev_nintrs\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR, \fBint *\fIresultp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). This interface is obsolete. Use the new
interrupt interfaces referenced in \fBIntro\fR(9F). Refer to \fIWriting
Device Drivers\fR for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_dev_nintrs()
function returns the number of interrupt
specifications a device has in \fB*\fIresultp\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_dev_nintrs()
function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A successful return. The number of interrupt specifications that the device
has is set in
.IR resultp .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The device has no interrupt specifications.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_dev_nintrs()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR isa (4),
.BR sbus (4),
.BR ddi_add_intr (9F),
.BR ddi_dev_nregs (9F),
.BR ddi_dev_regsize (9F),
.BR Intro (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
