'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_fm_acc_err_clear 9F "10 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_fm_acc_err_clear, ddi_fm_dma_err_clear \- clear the error status for an
access or DMA handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ndifma.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_fm_acc_err_clear\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIacc_handle\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_fm_dma_err_clear\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIdma_handle\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I acc_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Data access handle obtained from a previous call to
.BR ddi_regs_map_setup (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_mem_alloc (9F),
or to a similar
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dma_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
.B DMA
handle obtained from a previous call to
.BR ddi_dma_mem_alloc (9F)
or one of its derivatives.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I version
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Version number of
.BR ddi_fm_error_t .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_fm_dma_err_clear()\fR and \fBddi_fm_acc_err_clear()\fR functions
clear the error status of a
.B DMA
or access handle respectively.
.sp
.LP
Once cleared, the driver is again able to access the mapped registers or
memory using programmed
.B I/O
through the handle.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ddi_dma_mem_alloc (9F),
.BR ddi_fm_acc_err_get (9F),
.BR ddi_fm_dma_err_get (9F),
.BR ddi_regs_map_setup (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
