'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_intr_get_cap 9F "20 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_intr_get_cap, ddi_intr_set_cap \- get or set interrupt capabilities for
a given interrupt type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_get_cap\fR(\fBddi_intr_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR, \fBint *\fIflagsp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_set_cap\fR(\fBddi_intr_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_intr_get_cap()
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I h
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
DDI interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flagsp
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the capability flags returned for this handle
.RE

.sp
.LP
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I h
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
DDI interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Contains the capability flag to be set
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_intr_get_cap()
function returns the interrupt capability
flags for the interrupt handle
.IR h .
Upon a successful return, the flags
are returned in the integer pointed to by the
.I flagsp
argument.
.sp
.LP
These flags are typically combinations of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_EDGE
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
For discrete interrupts, the host supports
.B edge
type of trigger. This
flag is not returned for
.B DDI_INTR_TYPE_MSI
or
.BR DDI_INTR_TYPE_MSIX
interrupt types. This is a read-write (RW) flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_LEVEL
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
For discrete interrupts the host supports
.BR level ,
.BR edge ,
or both
types of triggers. This flag is not returned for
.B DDI_INTR_TYPE_MSI
or
.B DDI_INTR_TYPE_MSIX
interrupt types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_MASKABLE
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The interrupt can be masked either by the device or by the host bridge, or
optionally by the host. This is a read-only (\fBRO\fR) flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_PENDING
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
The interrupt supports an interrupt pending bit. This is a read-only
(\fBRO\fR) flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_BLOCK
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
All interrupts of the given type must be block-enabled and are not
individually maskable. This is a read-only (\fBRO\fR) flag.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
function allows a driver to specify the
capability flags for the interrupt handle
.IR h .
Only
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_LEVEL
and
.B DDI_INTR_FLAG_EDGE
flags can be set.
Some devices can support both level and edge capability and either can be
set by using the
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
function. Setting the capability
flags is device and platform dependent.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
function can be called after interrupts are
allocated and prior to adding the interrupt handler. For all other times it
returns failure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_intr_get_cap()
and
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
functions
return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
On success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
On encountering invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
On any implementation specific failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
On device not supporting operation.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_intr_get_cap()
and
.B ddi_intr_set_cap()
functions can be
called from either user or kernel non-interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ddi_intr_alloc (9F),
.BR ddi_intr_block_enable (9F),
.BR ddi_intr_get_nintrs (9F),
.BR ddi_intr_get_pending (9F),
.BR ddi_intr_get_supported_types (9F),
.BR ddi_intr_set_mask (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Consumers of these interfaces should verify that the return value is not
equal to
.BR DDI_SUCCESS .
Incomplete checking for failure codes could
result in inconsistent behavior among platforms.
