'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_driver_major 9F "18 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_driver_major \- return driver's major device number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBmajor_t\fR \fBddi_driver_major\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_major()
returns the major device number for the driver
associated with the supplied
.BR "dev_info node" .
This value can then be
used as an argument to
.BR makedevice "(9F) to construct a complete"
.BR dev_t .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A pointer to the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_major()
returns the major number of the driver bound to a
device, if any, or
.B DDI_MAJOR_T_NONE
otherwise.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_major()
can be called from kernel or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_driver_name (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
