'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_dma_set_sbus64 9F "1 Jan 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_set_sbus64 \- allow 64-bit transfers on SBus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_set_sbus64\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIburstsizes\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The handle filled in by a call to
.BR ddi_dma_alloc_handle (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I burstsizes
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The possible burst sizes the device's
.B DMA
engine can accept in 64-bit
mode.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_set_sbus64()
informs the system that the device wishes to
perform 64-bit data transfers on the SBus. The driver must first allocate a
.B DMA
handle using
.BR ddi_dma_alloc_handle "(9F) with a"
.BR ddi_dma_attr (9S)
structure describing the
.B DMA
attributes for a
32-bit transfer mode.
.sp
.LP
.I burstsizes
describes the possible burst sizes the device's
.B DMA
engine can accept in 64-bit mode. It may be  distinct from the burst sizes
for 32-bit mode set in the
.BR ddi_dma_attr (9S)
structure. The system
will activate 64-bit SBus transfers if the SBus supports them. Otherwise,
the SBus will operate in 32-bit mode.
.sp
.LP
After
.B DMA
resources have been allocated (see
.BR ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle (9F)
or
.BR ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle (9F)),
the driver should retrieve the available burst sizes by calling
.BR ddi_dma_burstsizes (9F).
This function will return the burst sizes  in
64-bit mode if the system was able to  activate 64-bit transfers.  Otherwise
burst sizes will be  returned in 32-bit mode.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_set_sbus64()
returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Successfully set the SBus to 64-bit mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
64-bit mode could not be set.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_set_sbus64()
can be called from user, kernel, or interrupt
context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
ArchitectureSBus
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_alloc_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_burstsizes (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_attr (9S)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
64-bit SBus mode is activated on a per SBus slot basis. If there are
multiple SBus cards in one slot, they all must operate in 64-bit mode or
they all must operate in 32-bit mode.
