'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_rep_put8 9F "1 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_rep_put8, ddi_rep_put16, ddi_rep_put32, ddi_rep_put64, ddi_rep_putb,
ddi_rep_putw, ddi_rep_putl, ddi_rep_putll \- write data to the mapped memory
address, device register or allocated DMA memory address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_rep_put8\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint8_t\fR \fI*host_addr\fR,
     \fBuint8_t\fR \fI*dev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_rep_put16\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint16_t\fR \fI*host_addr\fR,
     \fBuint16_t\fR \fI*dev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_rep_put32\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fI*host_addr\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fI*dev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_rep_put64\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint64_t\fR \fI*host_addr\fR,
     \fBuint64_t\fR \fI*dev_addr\fR,\fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). The
.BR ddi_rep_putb() ,
.BR ddi_rep_putl() ,
.BR ddi_rep_putll() ,
and
.BR ddi_rep_putw()
functions are obsolete. The
.B ddi_rep_put8()
function replaces
.BR ddi_rep_putb() .
The
.B ddi_rep_put32()
function replaces
.BR ddi_rep_putl() .
The
.B ddi_rep_put64()
function replaces
.BR ddi_rep_putll() .
The
.B ddi_rep_put16()
function replaces
.BR ddi_rep_putw() .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The data access handle returned from setup calls, such as
.BR ddi_regs_map_setup (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I host_addr
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Base host address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dev_addr
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Base device address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I repcount
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Number of data accesses to perform.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIflags\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Device address flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_DEV_AUTOINCR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Automatically increment the device address,
.IR dev_addr ,
during data
accesses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_DEV_NO_AUTOINCR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
Do not advance the device address,
.IR dev_addr ,
during data accesses.
.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines generate multiple writes to the mapped memory or device
register.
.I repcount
data is copied from the host address,
.IR host_addr ,
to the device address,
.IR dev_addr .
For each input
datum, the
.BR ddi_rep_put8() ,
.BR ddi_rep_put16() ,
.BR ddi_rep_put32() ,
and
.B ddi_rep_put64()
functions write 8 bits, 16
bits, 32 bits, and 64 bits of data, respectively,  to the device address,
.IR dev_addr .
\fIdev_addr\fR and \fIhost_addr\fR must be aligned to the
datum boundary described by the function.
.sp
.LP
Each individual datum will automatically be translated to maintain a
consistent view between the host and the device based on the encoded
information in the data access handle.  The translation may involve
byte-swapping if the host and the device have incompatible endian
characteristics.
.sp
.LP
When the \fIflags\fR argument is set to
.BR DDI_DEV_AUTOINCR ,
these
functions treat the device address,
.IR dev_addr ,
as a memory buffer
location on the device and increment its address on the next input datum.
However, when the \fIflags\fR argument is set to
.BR DDI_DEV_NO_AUTOINCR ,
the same device address will be used for every datum access. For example,
this flag may be useful when writing to a data register.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityT{
\fBddi_rep_putb()\fR, \fBddi_rep_putl()\fR, \fBddi_rep_putll()\fR, and \fBddi_rep_putw()\fR are Obsolete \fBddi_rep_put8()\fR, \fBddi_rep_put16()\fR, \fBddi_rep_put32()\fR, \fBddi_rep_put64()\fR are Committed
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_get8 (9F),
.BR ddi_put8 (9F),
.BR ddi_regs_map_free (9F),
.BR ddi_regs_map_setup (9F),
.BR ddi_rep_get8 (9F),
.BR ddi_device_acc_attr (9S)
