'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_get_parent 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_parent \- find the parent of a device information structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBdev_info_t *\fBddi_get_parent\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a device information structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_get_parent()
function returns a pointer to the device
information structure which is the parent of the one pointed to by
.IR dip .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_get_parent()
function returns a pointer to a device
information structure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_get_parent()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
