'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_slaveonly 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_slaveonly \- tell if a device is installed in a slave access only
location
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_slaveonly\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*dip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
A pointer to the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_slaveonly()
function tells the caller if the bus, or part of
the bus that the device is installed on, does not permit the device to
become a DMA master, that is, whether the device has been installed in a
slave access only slot.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The device has been installed in a slave access only location.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The device has not been installed in a slave access only location.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_slaveonly()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
