'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_get_kt_did 9F "15 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_kt_did \- get identifier of current thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBkt_did_t\fR \fBddi_get_kt_did\fR(\fIvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_get_kt_did()
function returns a unique 64-bit identifier for
the currently running thread.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This routine can be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context. This
routine cannot be called from a high-level interrupt context.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_get_kt_did()
always returns the identifier for the current
thread. There are no error conditions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The value returned by this function can also be seen in
.B adb
or
.B mdb
as the
.B did
field displayed when using the
.BR thread
macro.
.sp
.LP
This interface is intended for tracing and debugging purposes.
