'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_dma_burstsizes 9F "1 Feb 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_burstsizes \- find out the allowed burst sizes for a DMA mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_burstsizes\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A
.B DMA
handle that was filled in by a successful call to
.BR ddi_dma_setup (9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_burstsizes()
returns the allowed burst sizes for a
.BR DMA
mapping. This value is derived from the
.B dlim_burstsizes
member of the
.BR ddi_dma_lim_sparc (9S)
structure, but it shows the allowable burstsizes
.B after
imposing on it the limitations of other device layers in
addition to device's own limitations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_dma_burstsizes()
returns a binary encoded value of the allowable
.B DMA
burst sizes. See
.BR ddi_dma_lim_sparc (9S)
for a discussion of
.B DMA
burst sizes.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_dma_devalign (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_setup (9F),
.BR ddi_dma_lim_sparc (9S),
.BR ddi_dma_req (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
