'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_driver_name 9F "2 Dec 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_driver_name \- return normalized driver name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBconst char *\fBddi_driver_name\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdevi\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dip
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A pointer to the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_name()
returns the normalized driver name. This name is
typically derived from the device name property or the device compatible
property. If this name is a driver alias, the corresponding driver name is
returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_name()
returns the actual name  of the driver bound to a
device.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B ddi_driver_name()
can  be  called  from kernel, or interrupt
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_get_name (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The name returned by
.B ddi_driver_name()
is read-only.
