'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_no_info 9F "9 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_no_info \- stub for getinfo(9E)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_no_info\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR, \fBddi_info_cmd_t\fR \fIinfocmd\fR, \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR,
    \fBvoid **\fIresult\fR
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "dev_info_t *" dip
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Pointer to
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "ddi_info_cmd_t " infocmd
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Command argument. Valid command values are:
.B DDI_INFO_DEVT2DEVINFO
and
.BR DDI_INFO_DEVT2INSTANCE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "void *" arg
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Command-specific argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "void **" result
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Pointer to where the requested information is stored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_no_info()
function always returns
.BR DDI_FAILURE .
It is
provided as a convenience routine for drivers not providing a
.BR cb_ops (9S)
or for network drivers only providing DLPI-2 services. Such
drivers can use
.BR ddi_no_info() " in the "
.B devo_getinfo
entry point
(see
.BR getinfo (9E))
of the \fBdev_ops\fR(9S) structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_no_info()
function always returns
.BR DDI_FAILURE .
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getinfo (9E),
.BR qassociate (9F),
.BR cb_ops (9S),
.BR dev_ops (9S)
