'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH devmap_do_ctxmgt 9F "22 Jan 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
devmap_do_ctxmgt \- perform device context switching on a mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBdevmap_do_ctxmgt\fR(\fBdevmap_cookie_t\fR \fIdhp\fR, \fBvoid\fR \fI*pvtp\fR, \fBoffset_t\fR \fIoff\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fIrw\fR, \fBint (*\fIdevmap_contextmgt\fR)devmap_cookie_t,
     void *, offset_t, size_t, uint_t, uint_t);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dhp
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An opaque mapping handle that the system uses to describe the mapping.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvtp
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Driver private mapping data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I off
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
User offset within the logical device memory at which the access begins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I len
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Length (in bytes) of the memory being accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I devmap_contextmgt
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The address of driver function that the system will call to perform context
switching on a mapping. See
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E)
for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Type of access operation.  Provided by
.BR devmap_access (9E).
Should not
be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rw
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Direction of access.  Provided by
.BR devmap_access (9E).
Should not be
modified.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Device drivers call
.B devmap_do_ctxmgt()
in the
.BR devmap_access (9E)
entry point to perform device context switching on a mapping.
.B devmap_do_ctxmgt()
passes a pointer to a driver supplied callback
function,
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E),
to the system that will perform the
actual device context switching.  If
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E)
is not a
valid driver callback function, the system will fail the memory access
operation which will result in a
.B SIGSEGV
or
.B SIGBUS
signal being
delivered to the process.
.sp
.LP
.B devmap_do_ctxmgt()
performs context switching on the mapping object
identified by
.I dhp
and
.I pvtp
in the range specified by
.I off
and
.IR len .
The arguments
.IR dhp ,
.IR pvtp ,
.IR type ,
and
.IR rw
are provided by the
.BR devmap_access "(9E) entry point and must not be"
modified. The range from
.IR off " to "
.I off+len
must support context
switching.
.sp
.LP
The system will pass through \fIdhp\fR,\fI pvtp\fR,\fI off\fR, \fI len\fR,\fI type\fR, and
.I rw
to
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E)
in order to
perform the actual device context switching.  The return value from
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E)
will be returned directly to
.BR devmap_do_ctxmgt() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Non-zero
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B devmap_do_ctxmgt()
must be called from the driver's
.BR devmap_access (9E)
entry point.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using devmap_do_ctxmgt in the devmap_access entry point.
.sp
.LP
The following shows an example of using
.B devmap_do_ctxmgt()
in the
.BR devmap_access (9E)
entry point.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.\|.\|.
#define OFF_DO_CTXMGT  0x40000000
#define OFF_NORMAL     0x40100000
#define CTXMGT_SIZE    0x100000
#define NORMAL_SIZE    0x100000

/*
 * Driver devmap_contextmgt(9E) callback function.
 */
static int
xx_context_mgt(devmap_cookie_t dhp, void *pvtp, offset_t offset,
    size_t length, uint_t type, uint_t rw)
{
    ......
    /*
     * see devmap_contextmgt(9E) for an example
     */
}

/*
 * Driver devmap_access(9E) entry point
 */
static int
xxdevmap_access(devmap_cookie_t dhp, void *pvtp, offset_t off,
    size_t len, uint_t type, uint_t rw)
{
    offset_t diff;
    int err;

    /*
     * check if off is within the range that supports
     * context management.
     */
    if ((diff = off - OFF_DO_CTXMG) >= 0 && diff < CTXMGT_SIZE) {
        /*
         * calculates the length for context switching
         */
        if ((len + off) > (OFF_DO_CTXMGT + CTXMGT_SIZE))
            return (-1);
        /*
         * perform context switching
         */
        err = devmap_do_ctxmgt(dhp, pvtp, off, len, type,
                    rw, xx_context_mgt);
    /*
     * check if off is within the range that does normal
     * memory mapping.
     */
    } else if ((diff = off - OFF_NORMAL) >= 0 && diff < NORMAL_SIZE) {
        if ((len + off) > (OFF_NORMAL + NORMAL_SIZE))
            return (-1);
        err = devmap_default_access(dhp, pvtp, off, len, type, rw);
    } else
        return (-1);

    return (err);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR devmap_access (9E),
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E),
.BR devmap_default_access (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
