'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH devmap_set_ctx_timeout 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
devmap_set_ctx_timeout \- set the timeout value for the context management
callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBdevmap_set_ctx_timeout\fR(\fBdevmap_cookie_t\fR \fIdhp\fR, \fBclock_t\fR \fIticks\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dhp
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An opaque mapping handle that the system uses to describe the mapping.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ticks
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Number of clock ticks to wait between successive calls to the context
management callback function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B devmap_set_ctx_timeout()
function specifies the time interval for
the system to wait between successive calls to the driver's context
management callback function,
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E).
.sp
.LP
Device drivers typically call
.B devmap_set_ctx_timeout()
in the
.BR devmap_map (9E)
routine. If the drivers do not call
.B devmap_set_ctx_timeout()
to set the timeout value, the default timeout
value of
.B 0
will result in no delay between successive calls to the
driver's
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E)
callback function.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B devmap_set_ctx_timeout()
function can be called from user,
interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR devmap_contextmgt (9E),
.BR devmap_map (9E),
.BR timeout (9F)
