'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH drv_priv 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
drv_priv \- determine driver privilege
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBdrv_priv\fR(\fBcred_t *\fIcr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to the user credential structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_priv()
function provides a general interface to the system
privilege policy. It determines whether the credentials supplied by the user
credential structure pointed to by
.I cr
identify a process that has the
.B {PRIV_SYS_DEVICES}
privilege asserted in its effective set. This
function should be used only when file access modes, special minor device
numbers, and the device policy (see
.BR privileges (5),
.BR add_drv (1M))
are insufficient to provide protection for the requested driver function. It
is intended to replace all calls to
.B suser()
and any explicit checks
for effective user ID = 0 in driver code.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
This routine returns
.B 0
if it succeeds,
.B EPERM
if it fails.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_priv()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR add_drv (1M),
.BR update_drv (1M),
.BR privileges (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
