'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH drv_hztousec 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
drv_hztousec \- convert clock ticks to microseconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBclock_t\fR \fBdrv_hztousec\fR(\fBclock_t\fR \fIhertz\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hertz
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The number of clock ticks to convert.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_hztousec()
function converts into microseconds the time
expressed by
.IR hertz ,
which is in system clock ticks.
.sp
.LP
The kernel variable
.BR lbolt ,
whose value should be retrieved by calling
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9F),
is the length of time the system has been up since
boot and is expressed in clock ticks. Drivers often use the value of
.B lbolt
before and after an
.B I/O
request to measure the amount of
.RB "time it took the device to process the request. The" " drv_hztousec()"
function can be used by the driver to convert the reading from clock ticks
to a known unit of time.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The number of microseconds equivalent to the
.I hertz
parameter. No
error value is returned. If the microsecond equivalent to
.I hertz
is too
large to be represented as a
.BR clock_t ,
then the maximum
.BR clock_t
value will be returned.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_hztousec()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9F),
.BR drv_usectohz (9F),
.BR drv_usecwait (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
