'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH drv_usecwait 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
drv_usecwait \- busy-wait for specified interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBdrv_usecwait\fR(\fBclock_t\fR \fImicrosecs\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I microsecs
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The number of microseconds to busy-wait.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_usecwait()
function gives drivers a means of busy-waiting for
a specified microsecond count. The amount of time spent busy-waiting may be
greater than the microsecond count but will minimally be the number of
microseconds specified.
.sp
.LP
.BR delay (9F)
can be used by a driver to delay for a specified number of
system ticks, but it has two limitations. First, the granularity of the wait
time is limited to one clock tick, which may be more time than is needed for
the delay. Second,
.BR delay (9F)
can be invoked from user or kernel
context and hence cannot be used at interrupt time or system
initialization.
.sp
.LP
Often, drivers need to delay for only a few microseconds, waiting for a
write to a device register to be picked up by the device. In this case, even
in user context,
.BR delay (9F)
produces too long a wait period.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_usecwait()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR delay (9F),
.BR timeout (9F),
.BR untimeout (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The driver wastes processor time by making this call since
.B drv_usecwait()
does not block but simply busy-waits. The driver should
only make calls to
.B drv_usecwait()
as needed, and only for as much time
as needed. The
.B drv_usecwait()
function does not mask out interrupts.
