'\" te
.\"  opyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH drv_getparm 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
drv_getparm \- retrieve kernel state information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBdrv_getparm\fR(\fBunsigned int\fR \fIparm\fR, \fBvoid *\fIvalue_p\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I parm
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The kernel parameter to be obtained. Possible values are:
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LBOLT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read the value of
.BR lbolt .
.B lbolt
is a
.B clock_t
that is
unconditionally incremented by one at each clock tick. No special treatment
is applied when this value overflows the maximum value of the signed
integral type
.BR clock_t .
When this occurs, its value will be negative,
and its magnitude will be decreasing until it again passes zero. It can
therefore not be relied upon to provide an indication of the amount of time
that passes since the last system reboot, nor should it be used to mark an
absolute time in the system. Only the difference between two measurements of
.B lbolt
is significant. It is used in this way inside the system kernel
for timing purposes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PPGRP
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read the process group identification number. This number determines which
processes should receive a
.B HANGUP
or
.B BREAK
signal when detected
by a driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UPROCP
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read the process table token value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PPID
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read process identification number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PSID
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read process session identification number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TIME
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Read time in seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UCRED
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Return a pointer to the caller's credential structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value_p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pointer to the data space in which the value of the parameter is to be
copied.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Since the release of the Solaris 2.6 operating environment, the
.B drv_getparm()
function has been replaced by
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9F),
.BR ddi_get_time (9F),
and
.BR ddi_get_pid (9F).
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_getparm()
function verifies that
.I parm
corresponds to a
kernel parameter that may be read. If the value of
.I parm
does not
correspond to a parameter or corresponds to a parameter that may not be
read,
.B -1
is returned. Otherwise, the value of the parameter is stored
in the data space pointed to by
.IR value_p .
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_getparm()
function does not explicitly check to see whether
the device has the appropriate context when the function is called and the
function does not check for correct alignment in the data space pointed to
by
.IR value_p .
It is the responsibility of the driver writer to use this
function only when it is appropriate to do so and to correctly declare the
data space needed by the driver.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_getparm()
function returns
.B 0
to indicate success,
.B -1
to indicate failure. The value stored in the space pointed to by
.I value_p
is the value of the parameter if
.B 0
is returned, or
undefined if
.B -1
is returned.
.B -1
is returned if you specify a
value other than
.BR LBOLT ,
.BR PPGRP ,
.BR PPID ,
.BR PSID ,
.BR TIME ,
.BR UCRED ,
or
.BR UPROCP .
Always check the return code when
using this function.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B drv_getparm()
function can be called from user context only when
using
.BR PPGRP ,
.BR PPID ,
.BR PSID ,
.BR UCRED ,
or
.BR UPROCP .
It
can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context when using the
.B LBOLT
or
.B TIME
argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9F),
.BR ddi_get_pid (9F),
.BR ddi_get_time (9F),
.BR buf (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
