'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH esbbcall 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
esbbcall \- call function when buffer is available
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBbufcall_id_t\fR \fBesbbcall\fR(\fBuint_t\fR \fIpri\fR, \fBvoid\fR (\fI*func\fR)(\fIvoid *arg\fR),
     \fBvoid\fR(\fIarg\fR));
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pri
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Priority of allocation request (to be used by
.BR allocb (9F)
function,
called by
.BR esbbcall() ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I func
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Function to be called when buffer becomes available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Argument to
.IR func .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B esbbcall()
function, like
.BR bufcall (9F),
serves as a
.BR timeout (9F)
call of indeterminate length. If
.BR esballoc (9F)
is
unable to allocate a message and data block header to go with its externally
supplied data buffer,
.B esbbcall()
can be used to schedule the routine
.IR func ,
to be called with the argument
.I arg
when a buffer becomes
available. The
.I func
argument can be a routine that calls
.BR esballoc (9F)
or it may be another kernel function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success, a
.BR "bufcall ID" is
returned. On failure,
.B 0
is
returned. The value returned from a successful call should be saved for
possible future use with
.B unbufcall()
should it become necessary to
cancel the
.B esbbcall()
request (as at driver close time).
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B esbbcall()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR allocb (9F),
.BR bufcall (9F),
.BR esballoc (9F),
.BR timeout (9F),
.BR datab (9S),
.BR unbufcall (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I "Writing Device Drivers" STREAMS Programming Guide
