'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH freemsg 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
freemsg \- free all message blocks in a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBfreemsg\fR(\fBmblk_t *\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mp
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to the message blocks to be deallocated.
.B mblk_t
is an
instance of the \fBmsgb\fR(9S) structure. If
.I mp
is
.IR NULL ,
.B freemsg()
immediately returns.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfreemsg()\fR function calls \fBfreeb\fR(9F) to free all message and
data blocks associated with the message pointed to by
.IR mp .
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B freemsg()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using \fBfreemsg()\fR
.sp
.LP
See
.BR copymsg (9F).

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR copymsg (9F),
.BR freeb (9F),
.BR msgb (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The behavior of
.B freemsg()
when passed a
.I NULL
pointer is
Solaris-specific.
