'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getq 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
getq \- get the next message from a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBmblk_t *\fBgetq\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIq\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I q
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Pointer to the queue from which the message is to be retrieved.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getq()
function is used by a service (
.BR srv (9E))
routine to
retrieve its enqueued messages.
.sp
.LP
A module or driver may include a service routine to process enqueued
messages. Once the
.B STREAMS
scheduler calls
.B srv()
it must process
all enqueued messages, unless prevented by flow control. \fBgetq()\fR
obtains the next available message from the top of the queue pointed to by
.IR q .
It should be called in a
.B while
loop that is exited only when
there are no more messages or flow control prevents further processing.
.sp
.LP
If an attempt was made to write to the queue while it was blocked by flow
control,
.B getq()
back-enables (restarts) the service routine once it
falls below the low water mark.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there is a message to retrieve,
.B getq()
returns a pointer to it. If
no message is queued,
.B getq()
returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B getq()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR dupb (9F).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR srv (9E),
.BR bcanput (9F),
.BR canput (9F),
.BR dupb (9F),
.BR putbq (9F),
.BR putq (9F),
.BR qenable (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
