'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kiconv_close 9F "16 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
kiconv_close \- code conversion descriptor deallocation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/errno.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBkiconv_close\fR(\fBkiconv_t\fR \fIcd\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cd
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Code conversion descriptor to be deallocated.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B kiconv_close()
function deallocates the conversion descriptor
.I cd
and all other associated resources allocated by the
.B kiconv_open()
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B kiconv_close()
returns 0; otherwise, it
returns the following
.I errno
value to indicate the error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The code conversion descriptor is invalid.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B kiconv_close()
can be called from user or interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Closing the Code Conversion
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to close the code conversion descriptor
with error checking:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
if (kiconv_close(cd) == EBADF) {
         /* Code conversion descriptor is invalid. */
         return (-1);
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to close the code conversion descriptor
without error checking:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
(void) kiconv_close(cd);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iconv (3C),
.BR iconv_close (3C),
.BR iconv_open (3C),
.BR u8_strcmp (3C),
.BR u8_textprep_str (3C),
.BR u8_validate (3C),
.BR uconv_u16tou32 (3C),
.BR uconv_u16tou8 (3C),
.BR uconv_u32tou16 (3C),
.BR uconv_u32tou8 (3C),
.BR uconv_u8tou16 (3C),
.BR uconv_u8tou32 (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kiconv (9F),
.BR kiconvstr (9F),
.BR kiconv_open (9F),
.BR u8_strcmp (9F),
.BR u8_textprep_str (9F),
.BR u8_validate (9F),
.BR uconv_u16tou32 (9F),
.BR uconv_u16tou8 (9F),
.BR uconv_u32tou16 (9F),
.BR uconv_u32tou8 (9F),
.BR uconv_u8tou16 (9F),
.BR uconv_u8tou32 (9F)
.sp
.LP
The Unicode Standard
.sp
.LP
http://www.unicode.org/standard/standard.html
