'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldi_dump 9F "3 June 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ldi_dump \- Issue a dump request to a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunldi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldi_dump\fR(\fBldi_handle_t\fR \fIlh\fR, \fBcaddr_t addr, daddr_t\fI blkno\fR, \fB int\fR \fInblk\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lh
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Layered handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I addr
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Area dump address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I blkno
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Block offset to dump memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nblk
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of blocks to dump.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_dump()
function passes a dump request to the device entry
point specified by the layered handle. This operation is supported for block
devices.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_dump()
function returns
.B 0
upon success. If a failure
occurs before the request is passed on to the device, the possible return
values are shown below. Otherwise any other error number may be returned by
the device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Operation is not supported for this device.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user or kernel context.
