'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldi_aread 9F "3 June 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ldi_aread, ldi_awrite \- Issue an asynchronous read or write request to a
device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunldi.h>

\fBint\fR ldi_aread(\fBldi_handle_t\fR \fIlh\fR, \fB struct aio_req *\fIaio_reqp\fR, \fBcred_t *\fIcr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB ldi_awrite\fR(\fBldi_handle_t\fR \fIlh\fR, \fB struct aio_req *\fIaio_reqp\fR, \fBcred_t *\fIcr\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lh
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Layered handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a credential structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I aio_reqp
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the
.B aio_req(9S)
structure that describes where the data is
to be stored or obtained from.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_awrite()
function passes an asynchronous write request to a
device entry point specified by the layered handle. This operation is
supported for block and character devices.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_aread()
function passes an asynchronous read request to a
device entry point specified by the layered handle. This operation is
supported for block and character devices.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_awrite()
and
.B ldi_aread()
functions return
.B 0
upon
success. If a failure occurs before the request is passed on to the device,
the possible return values are shown below. Otherwise any other error number
may be returned by the device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Operation is not supported for this device.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user context.
