'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldi_ioctl 9F "3 June 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ldi_ioctl \- send an ioctl to a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunldi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBldi_ioctl\fR(\fBldi_handle_t\fR \fIlh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBintptr_t\fR \fIarg\fR, \fBint\fR \fImode\fR,
     \fBcred_t  *\fIcr\fR, \fBint *\fIrvalp\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lh
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Layered handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to a credential structure used to open a device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rvalp
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Caller return value. (May be set by driver and is valid only if the
.B ioctl()
succeeds).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmd
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Command argument. Interpreted by driver
.B ioctl()
as the operation to
be performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Driver parameter. Argument interpretation is driver dependent and usually
depends on the command type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mode
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Bit field that contains:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FKIOCTL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Inform the target device that the ioctl originated from within the
kernel.
.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_ioctl()
function passes an ioctl request to the device entry
point for the device specified by the layered handle. This operation is
supported for block, character, and streams devices.
.sp
.LP
If
.I arg
is interpreted  as a pointer (that is, as not an immediate
value) and the data pointed to by
.I arg
is in the kernels address space,
the
.B FKIOCTL
flag should be set. This indicates to the target driver
that no data model conversion is necessary.
.sp
.LP
If the caller of
.B ldi_ioctl()
is not the originator of the ioctl data
pointed to by
.IR arg ,
(for example, when passing on an ioctl request from
a user process), the caller must pass on the mode parameter from the
original ioctl. This is because the mode parameter contains the contains the
.B FMODELS
bits that enable the target driver to determine the data model
of the process which originated the ioctl and perform any necessary
conversions. See \fBddi_model_convert_from\fR(9F) for more information.
.SH STREAM IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
For a general description of streams ioctls see
.BR streamio (7I).
.B ldi_ioctl()
supports a number of streams ioctls, using layered handles
in the place of file descriptors. When issuing streams ioctls the
.B FKIOCTL
parameter should be specified. The possible return values for
supported ioctl commands are also documented in
.BR streamio (7I).
.sp
.LP
The following streams ioctls are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B I_PLINK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Behaves as documented in \fBstreamio\fR(7I). The layered handle \fIlh\fR
should point to the streams multiplexer. The
.I arg
parameter should
point to a layered handle for another streams driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B I_UNPLINK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Behaves as documented in \fBstreamio\fR(7I)).  The layered handle \fIlh\fR
should point to the streams multiplexer. The
.I arg
parameter is the
multiplexor ID number returned by
.B I_PLINK
when the streams were
linked.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_ioctl()
function returns
.B 0
upon success. If a failure
occurs before the request is passed on to the device, possible return values
are shown below. Otherwise any other error number may be returned by the
device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Operation is not supported for this device.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR ddi_model_convert_from (9F)
