'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldi_devmap 9F "3 June 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ldi_devmap \- Issue a devmap request to a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunldi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldi_devmap\fR(\fBldi_handle_t\fR \fIlh\fR, \fBdevmap_cookie_t\fR \fIdhp\fR, \fBoffset_t\fR \fIoff\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBsize_t *\fImaplen\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fImodel\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lh
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Layered handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dhp
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Opaque mapping handle used by the system to describe mapping.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIoff\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
User offset within the logical device memory at which mapping begins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I len
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Mapping length (in bytes).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I maplen
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to length (in bytes) of validated mapping.  (Less than or equal to
.IR len ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I model
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Data model type of current thread.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_devmap()
function passes an devmap request to the device
entry point for the device specified by the layered handle. This operation
is supported for character devices.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldi_devmap()
function returns
.B 0
upon success. If a failure
occurs before the request is passed to the device, possible return values
are shown below. Otherwise any other error number may be returned by the
device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSUP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Operation is not supported for this device.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
