'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH list_create 9F "17 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
list_create, list_destroy, list_insert_after, list_insert_before,
list_insert_head, list_insert_tail, list_remove, list_remove_head,
list_remove_tail, list_head, list_tail, list_next, list_prev, list_is_empty,
list_link_init, list_link_active, list_move_tail, list_link_replace \- list
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/list.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_create\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIoffset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_destroy\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_after\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fIreference_item\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_before\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fIreference_item\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR*, \fBvoid *\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_remove\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fRitem);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_remove_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_remove_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_next\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fIreference_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fBlist_prev\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fIreference_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlist_is_empty\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_link_init\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fInode\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlist_link_active\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fInode\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_move_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fIdst\fR, \fBlist_t *\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_link_replace\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fInode1\fR, \fBlist_node_t *\fInode2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_create()
function initializes a new list. The driver
supplies the storage for the list handle, the size of an individual element,
and the offset of a
.B list_node_t
within the element to use for the
links of the list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_destroy()
function destroys the list handle, including
freeing any resources that may have been internally allocated for the list.
The list must be empty when this function is called.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_insert_after()\fR and \fBlist_insert_before()\fR functions
insert
.I new_item
into the linked list at a location after or before the
reference item, which must already be on the list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_insert_head()
and
.B list_insert_tail()
functions insert
the
.I new_item
on the list at either the head or tail of the list.  (The
head is the first item, the tail is the last item).
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_remove()
function removes the item from the list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_remove_head()
and
.B list_remove_tail()
functions remove
the head (first) or tail (last) item from the list. The item removed is
returned to the caller. If the list is empty when these functions are
called, then no change is made and
.I NULL
is returned to the caller.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_head()
and
.B list_tail()
functions simply return the
head (first) or tail (last) item on the list.
.I NULL
is returned if the
list is empty.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_next()
and
.B list_prev()
functions return the next or
previous item in the list, relative to the named reference item which must
be linked on the list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_is_empty()
function returns 0 if the list has items in it,
or non-zero otherwise.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_link_init()
function initializes the
.BR list_node_t .
It
is functionally equivalent to \fBbzero\fR(\fInode\fR,
\fBsizeof\fR(*\fInode\fR));
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_link_active()
function returns non-zero if the node is on an
active list.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_move_tail()
function is used to append the items on the
\fIsrc\fR list to the end of the \fIdst\fR list. It is mandatory that the
two lists were initialized using identical size and offset parameters. Upon
completion, the
.I src
list will be empty.
.sp
.LP
The
.B list_link_replace()
function swaps two items on a list.  Note
that the items need not be on the same list, but extreme care must be used
to ensure that both lists are protected from concurrent accesses and that
the lists were initialized with identical size and offset parameters.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
