'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH makedevice 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
makedevice \- make device number from major and minor numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/mkdev.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBdev_t\fR \fBmakedevice\fR(\fBmajor_t\fR \fImajnum\fR, \fBminor_t\fR \fIminnum\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I majnum
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Major device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minnum
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Minor device number.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B makedevice()
function creates a device number from a major and
minor device number.
.B makedevice()
should be used to create device
numbers so the driver will port easily to releases that treat device numbers
differently.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The device number, containing both the major number and the minor number,
is returned. No validation of the major or minor numbers is performed.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B makedevice()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getmajor (9F),
.BR getminor (9F)
