'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mexchange 9F "9 June 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
mexchange \- Exchange one message for another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/strsun.h>



\fBmblk_t *\fBmexchange\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fImp\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR,
     \fBuchar_t\fR \fItype\fR, \fBint32_t\fR \fIprimtype\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I wq
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Optionally, write queue associated with the read queue to be used on
failure (see below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mp
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Optionally, the message to exchange.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I size
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Size of the returned message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Type of the returned message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I primtype
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Optionally, a 4 byte value to store at the beginning of the returned
message.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mexchange()
function exchanges the passed in message for another
message of the specified
.I size
and
.IR type .
.sp
.LP
If
.I mp
is not NULL, is of at least
.I size
bytes, and has only one
reference (see
.BR dupmsg (9F)),
\fImp\fR is converted to be of the
specified
.I size
and
.IR type .
Otherwise, a new message of the
specified
.I size
and
.I type
is allocated. If allocation fails, and
.I wq
is not NULL,
.BR merror (9F)
attempts to send an error to the
stream head.
.sp
.LP
Finally, if
.I primtype
is not -1 and
.I size
is at least 4 bytes,
the first 4 bytes are assigned to be
.IR primtype .
This is chiefly useful
for STREAMS-based protocols such as
.B DLPI
and
.B TPI
which store the
protocol message type in the first 4 bytes of each message.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
A pointer to the requested message is returned on success. NULL is returned
on failure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dupmsg (9F),
.BR merror (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
