'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH miocpullup 9F "9 June 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
miocpullup \- Prepare the payload of an M_IOCTL message for access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/strsun.h>



\fBint\fR \fBmiocpullup\fR(\fBmblk_t *\fImp\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mp
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
M_IOCTL message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I size
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Number of bytes to prepare.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B miocpullup()
function prepares the payload of the specified
M_IOCTL message for access by ensuring that it consists of at least
.I size
bytes of data.
.sp
.LP
If the M_IOCTL message is transparent, or its total payload is less than
.I size
bytes, an error is returned.  Otherwise, the payload is
concatenated as necessary to provide contiguous access to at least
.I size
bytes of data. As a special case, if
.I size
is zero,
.B miocpullup()
returns successfully, even if no payload exists.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Zero is returned on success. Otherwise an errno value is returned
indicating the problem.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
