'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH net_getmtu 9F "1 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
net_getmtu \- determine the MTU of a given network interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnet_getmtu\fR(\fBconst\fR \fBnet_data_t\fR \fInet\fR, \fBconst\fR \fBphy_if_t\fR \fIifp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I net
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
value returned from a successful call to
.BR net_protocol_lookup (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ifp
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
value returned from a successful call to
.BR net_phylookup "(9F) or"
.BR net_phygetnext (9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_getmtu()
function receives information about the current
.B MTU
of a network interface. The value returned from this function call
should not be cached as the
.B MTU
of a network interface since it is not
guaranteed to be constant.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_getmtu()
function returns -1 if the network protocol does not
support this feature and otherwise returns the current MTU of the network
interface.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_getmtu()
function may be called from user,  kernel, or
interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR net_phygetnext (9F),
.BR net_phylookup (9F),
.BR net_protocol_lookup (9F)
