'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH net_protocol_notify_register 9F "30 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
net_protocol_notify_register, net_instance_protocol_unregister \- add/delete a
function to be called for changes to a protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/hook.h>
#include <sys/neti.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnet_protocol_notify_register\fR(\fBnet_handle_t\fR \fIfamily\fR,
     \fBhook_notify_fn_t\fR *\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid\fR *\fIarg\fR);

\fBint\fR \fBnet_protocol_notify_unregister\fR(\fBnet_handle_t\fR \fIfamily\fR,
     \fBhook_notify_fn_t\fR *\fIcallback\fR);

\fBtypedef int\fR (* \fBhook_notify_fn_t\fR)(\fBhook_notify_cmd_t command,\fR
     \fBvoid\fR *\fIarg\fR, \fBconst char\fR *\fIname1\fR, \fBconst char\fR *\fIname2\fR, \fBconst char\fR
     *\fIname3\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I family
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
value returned from
.BR net_protocol_lookup() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
function to call when a change occurs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
pointer to pass into the
.B callback()
function when a change occurs.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_protocol_notify_register()
function registers a function
represented by the pointer
.I callback
to be called when there is a change to
the protocol represented by
.IR family .
The types of changes for which
notifications are available for is currently limited to the addition and removal
of protocols.
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_protocol_notify_unregister()
function removes the function
specified by the pointer
.I callback
from the list of functions to call. This
call may fail if the specified function cannot be found.
.sp
.LP
Multiple
.I callback
functions may be registered through this interface. The
same set of parameters is passed to each
.I callback
function. The memory
referenced through the pointers passed to the
.I callback
should be treated
as pointing to read-only memory. Changing this data is strictly prohibited.
.sp
.LP
The function that is called must not block any other protocols.
.sp
.LP
The arguments passed through to the
.B callback
are as follows (the command
is either
.B HN_REGISTER
or
.BR HN_UNREGISTER ):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name1
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
is the name of the protocol
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name2
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
is
.BR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name3
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
is the name of the protocol being added/removed
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If these functions succeed, 0 is returned. Otherwise, the following error is
returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
the given callback function is already registered.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR net_protocol_lookup (9F)
