'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH netinfo 9F "1 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
netinfo \- interface to network data/functionality
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_getnetid()
interface is designed to provide the framework for
accessing functionality and data within an implementation of a network layer
protocol (OSI layer 3.) A protocol may or may not provide full coverage for
each of the functions that  is described within this interface. Where it
does not, it must return an appropriate error condition for that call.
Documentation pertaining to the network protocol, as found in man page
section 7pP, must list which functions provided by this interface are and
are not supported.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR hook_alloc (9F),
.BR hook_free (9F),
.BR hook_nic_event (9S),
.BR hook_pkt_event (9S),
.BR hook_t (9S),
.BR net_getifname (9F),
.BR net_getlifaddr (9F),
.BR net_getmtu (9F),
.BR net_getnetid (9F),
.BR net_getpmtuenabled (9F),
.BR net_hook_register (9F),
.BR net_hook_unregister (9F),
.BR net_inject (9F),
.BR net_inject_alloc (9F),
.BR net_inject_free (9F),
.BR net_inject_t (9S),
.BR net_instance_alloc (9F),
.BR net_instance_free (9F),
.BR net_instance_register (9F),
.BR net_instance_register (9F),
.BR net_inject_t (9S),
.BR net_ispartialchecksum (9F),
.BR net_isvalidchecksum (9F),
.BR net_kstat_create (9F),
.BR net_kstat_delete (9F),
.BR net_lifgetnext (9F),
.BR net_netidtozonid (9F),
.BR net_phygetnext (9F),
.BR net_phylookup (9F),
.BR net_protocol_lookup (9F),
.BR net_protocol_release (9F),
.BR net_protocol_walk (9F),
.BR net_routeto (9F),
.BR net_zoneidtonetid (9F)
