'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pollwakeup 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
pollwakeup \- inform a process that an event has occurred
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/poll.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBpollwakeup\fR(\fBstruct pollhead *\fIphp\fR, \fBshort\fR \fIevent\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I php
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B pollhead
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I event
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Event to notify the process about.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pollwakeup()
function wakes a process waiting on the occurrence
of an event. It should be called from a driver for each occurrence of an
event. The
.B pollhead
structure will usually be associated with the
driver's private data structure associated with the particular minor device
where the event has occurred. See
.BR chpoll (9E)
and
.BR poll (2)
for
more detail.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B pollwakeup()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR poll (2),
.BR chpoll (9E)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Driver defined locks should not be held across calls to this function.
