'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH priv_policy 9F "3 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
priv_policy, priv_policy_only, priv_policy_choice \- check, report, and
audit privileges
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/policy.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpriv_policy\fR(\fBconst cred_t  *\fIcr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpriv\fR, \fBint\fR \fIerr\fR,
     \fBboolean_t\fR \fIflag\fR, \fBconst char  *\fImsg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fBpriv_policy_only\fR(\fBconst cred_t  *\fIcr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpriv\fR,
     \fBboolean_t\fR \fIflag\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fBpriv_policy_choice\fR(\fBconst cred_t  *\fIcr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpriv\fR,
     \fBboolean_t\fR \fIflag\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The credential to be checked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I priv
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The integer value of the privilege to test.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIflag\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
All zone privileges flag. Set to
.B B_FALSE
for most tests or
\fBB_TRUE\fR if the operation requires the caller to have all available
privileges in the zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I err
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The error code to return.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I msg
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
String that is added to the privilege debugging message if one is
generated. NULL if no additional information is needed. Because the function
name is included in the output, NULL is usually the best value to pass as a
parameter.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions aid in privilege checking and privilege debugging.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR priv_policy() ,
.BR priv_policy_only() ,
and
\fBpriv_policy_choice()\fR functions all check whether \fIpriv\fR is
asserted in the effective set of the credential. The special value
\fBPRIV_ALL\fR tests for all privileges.
.sp
.LP
The
.B priv_policy()
function updates the ASU accounting flag and
records the privilege used on success in the audit trail if the required
privilege was not a basic privilege.
.sp
.LP
The
.B priv_policy_only()
function checks whether a privilege is
asserted and has no side effects.
.sp
.LP
The
.B priv_policy_choice()
function behaves like
\fBpriv_policy_only()\fR but records the successfully used non-basic
privileges in the audit trail.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success,
.B priv_policy()
return 0. On failure it returns its
parameter
.IR err .
.sp
.LP
On success,
.B priv_policy_choice()
and
.B priv_policy_only()
return
1, on failure both return 0.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This might be caused by any of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The \fIflags\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The specified privilege does not exist.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.I priv
parameter contains invalid characters.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
There is no room to allocate another privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An attempt was made to allocate a privilege that was longer than
\fB{PRIVNAME_MAX}\fR characters.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This functions can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acct (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
