'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH put 9F "28 Apr 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
put \- call a STREAMS put procedure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBput\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I q
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a STREAMS queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mp
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to message block being passed into queue.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B put()
calls the put procedure ( \fBput\fR(9E) entry point) for the
STREAMS queue specified by
.IR q ,
passing it the message block referred to
by
.IR mp .
It is typically used by a driver or module to call its own put
procedure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
.B put()
can be called from a STREAMS module or driver put or service
routine, or from an associated interrupt handler, timeout, bufcall, or
esballoc call-back. In the latter cases, the calling code must guarantee the
validity of the
.I q
argument.
.sp
.LP
Since
.B put()
may cause re-entry of the module (as it is intended to
do), mutexes or other locks should not be held across calls to it, due to
the risk of single-party deadlock (\fBput\fR(9E),
.BR putnext (9F),
.BR putctl (9F),
.BR qreply (9F)).
This function is provided as a DDI/DKI
conforming replacement for a direct call to a put procedure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR put (9E),
.BR freezestr (9F),
.BR putctl (9F),
.BR putctl1 (9F),
.BR putnext (9F),
.BR putnextctl (9F),
.BR putnextctl1 (9F),
.BR qprocson (9F),
.BR qreply (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The caller cannot have the stream frozen when calling this function. See
.BR freezestr (9F).
.sp
.LP
DDI/DKI conforming modules and drivers are no longer permitted to call put
procedures directly, but must call through the appropriate STREAMS utility
function, for example,
.BR put (9E),
.BR putnext (9F),
.BR putctl (9F),
and \fBqreply\fR(9F). This function is provided as a DDI/DKI conforming
replacement for a direct call to a put procedure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B put()
and
.B putnext()
functions should be called only after
.B qprocson()
is finished.
