'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH qenable 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
qenable \- enable a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBqenable\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIq\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I q
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Pointer to the queue to be enabled.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B qenable()
function adds the queue pointed to by 
.I q
to the
list of queues whose service routines are ready to be called by the STREAMS
scheduler.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B qenable()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
See the \fBdupb\fR(9F) function page for an example of the
.BR qenable() .
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dupb (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
