'\" te
.\" Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH qunbufcall 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
qunbufcall \- cancel a pending qbufcall request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
 #include <sys/ddi.h>


\fBvoid\fR \fBqunbufcall\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fIq\fR, \fBbufcall_id_t\fR \fIid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I q
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to
.B STREAMS
queue_t structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I id
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Identifier returned from
.BR qbufcall (9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR qunbufcall() " function cancels a pending "
.B qbufcall()
request.
The argument
.I id
is a non-zero identifier of the request to be cancelled.
.I id
is returned from the
.B qbufcall()
function used to issue the
cancel request.
.sp
.LP
The
.B qunbufcall()
function is tailored to be used with the enhanced
.B STREAMS
framework interface which is based on the concept of perimeters.
(See
.BR mt-streams (9F).)
\fBqunbufcall()\fR returns when the bufcall has
been cancelled or finished executing. The bufcall will be cancelled even if it
is blocked at the perimeters associated with the queue. All outstanding
timeouts and bufcalls must be cancelled before a driver close routine can
block and before the close  routine calls
.BR qprocsoff (9F).
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B qunbufcall()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mt-streams (9F),
.BR qbufcall (9F),
.BR qtimeout (9F),
.BR quntimeout (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
