'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_log 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_log \- display a SCSI-device-related message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>
 #include <sys/cmn_err.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBscsi_log\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR, \fBchar *\fIdrv_name\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlevel\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fB, .\|.\|.\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I drv_name
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
String naming the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I level
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Error level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fmt
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Display format.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_log()
function is a utility function that displays a message
via the
.BR cmn_err "(9F) routine. The error levels that can be passed in to"
this function are
.BR CE_PANIC ,
.BR CE_WARN ,
.BR CE_NOTE ,
.BR CE_CONT ,
and
.BR SCSI_DEBUG .
The last level is used to assist in
displaying debug messages to the console only.
.I drv_name
is the short
.RB "name by which this device is known; example disk driver names are" " sd"
and
.BR cmdk .
If the
.I dev_info_t
pointer is
.IR NULL ,
then the
.I drv_name
will be used with no unit or long name.
.sp
.LP
If the first character in
.I format
is:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An exclamation mark
.RB ( ! ),
the message goes only to the system
buffer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A caret
.RB ( ^ ),
the message goes only to the console.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A question mark
.RB ( ? )
and
.I level
is
.BR CE_CONT ,
the message is
always sent to the system buffer, but is written to the console only when
the system has been booted in verbose mode. See
.BR kernel (1M).
If neither
condition is met, the
.B ?
character has no effect and is simply
ignored.
.RE
.sp
.LP
All formatting conversions in use by
.B cmn_err()
also work with
.BR scsi_log() .
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_log()
function may be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kernel (1M),
.BR sd (7D),
.BR cmn_err (9F),
.BR scsi_errmsg (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
