'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_get_device_type_string 9F "12 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_get_device_type_string \- look up per-device-type, returning matching
information string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBchar\fR \fB*scsi_get_device_type_string\fR(\fBchar *prop_name,
		dev_info_t  *\fIdip\fR, \fBstruct scsi_device  *\fIdevp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I prop_name
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Name of string array property that contains a list of paired device-type
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the device info node for this HBA driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I devp
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_device (9S)
structure of the target.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_get_device_type_string()
function looks up the
.I prop_name
property, which can be specified in the HBA's
\fBdriver.conf\fR(4)file. This property allows specification of
per-device-type information. The syntax for
.I prop_name
in a
.BR driver.conf (4)
file is:
.sp
.LP
The formal syntax is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
prop_name = \fI<duplet>\fR [, \fI<duplet>\fR *];
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI<duplet>\fR := \fI"<vid+pid>"\fR, \fI"<information"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The string
.I <vid+pid>
is returned by the device on a SCSI inquiry
command. This string can contain any character in the range 0x20-0x7e.
Characters such as double quote (") or single quote ('), which are not
permitted in property value strings, are represented by their octal
equivalent (for example, \e042 and \e047). Trailing spaces can be
truncated.
.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
scsi_vhci_failover_override =
	    "STK     FLEXLINE 400",	"f_asym_lsi",
 	    "SUN     T4",		"f_tpgs";;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The
.BR scsi_get_device_type_string ()
function searches the list of
duplets for a matching INQUIRY string. If a match is found,
.B scsi_get_device_type_string
returns a copy of the
.RI < information >
string. The meaning of the returned
.RI < information >
string is determined
by the caller.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B scsi_get_device_type_string()
returns a copy of the matching
<\fIinformation\fR> string, or if no match is found,
.B NULL
is returned.
When a non-NULL value is returned, the caller is responsible for freeing the
.RI < information >
string via:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
kmem_free(info, strlen(info) + 1);
.fi
.in -2

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from kernel or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR driver.conf (4)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
