'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options 9F "19 Nov 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options \- look up per-device-type scsi-options
property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBscsi_get_device_type_scsi_options\fR(\fBdev_info_t  *\fIdip\fR,
     \fBstruct scsi_device  *\fIdevp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIdefault_scsi_options\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to the device info node for this HBA driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I devp
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_device (9S)
structure of the target.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I default_scsi_options
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Value returned if no match is found.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options()
function looks up the
property
.BR device-type-scsi-options-list ,
which can be specified in the
HBA's
.BR driver.conf (4)
file. This property allows specification of
.B scsi-options
on a per-device-type basis.
.sp
.LP
The formal syntax is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
device-type-scsi-options-list = \fI<duplet>\fR [, \fI<duplet>\fR *];
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI<duplet>\fR := \fI<vid+pid>\fR, \fI<scsi-options-property-name>\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI<scsi-options-property-name>\fR = \fI<value>\fR;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The string
.I <vid+pid>
is returned by the device on a SCSI inquiry
command. This string can contain any character in the range 0x20-0x7e.
Characters such as double quote (\fB"\fR) or single quote (\fB\&'\fR), which
are not permitted in property value strings, are represented by their octal
equivalent (for example, \e042 and \e047). Trailing spaces can be
truncated.
.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
device-type-scsi-options-list=
        "SEAGATE ST32550W",  "seagate-options",
        "EXABYTE EXB-2501".  "exabyte-options",
        "IBM OEM DFHSS4S",  "ibm-options";

seagate-options = 0x78;
exabyte-options = 0x58;
ibm-options = 0x378;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options()
function searches the list of
duplets for a matching
.B INQUIRY
string. If a match is found,
.B scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options()
returns the corresponding value.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B scsi_get_device_type_scsi_options()
returns the
.BR scsi-options
value found, or if no match is found the
.B default_scsi_options
value
passed in.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from kernel or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
