'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_errmsg 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_errmsg \- display a SCSI request sense message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBscsi_errmsg\fR(\fBstruct scsi_device *\fIdevp\fR, \fBstruct scsi_pkt *\fIpktp\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIdrv_name\fR, \fBint\fR \fIseverity\fR, \fBdaddr_t\fR \fIblkno\fR, \fBdaddr_t\fR \fIerr_blkno\fR,
     \fBstruct scsi_key_strings *\fIcmdlist\fR, \fBstruct scsi_extended_sense *\fIsensep\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I devp
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the
.BR scsi_device "(9S) structure."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pktp
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_pkt "(9S) structure."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I drv_name
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
String used by
.BR scsi_log (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I severity
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Error severity level, maps to severity strings below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I blkno
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Requested block number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I err_blkno
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Error block number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmdlist
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An array of
.B SCSI
command description strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sensep
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A pointer to a
.BR scsi_extended_sense "(9S) structure."
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_errmsg()
function interprets the request sense information
in the
.I sensep
pointer and generates a standard message that is
displayed using \fBscsi_log\fR(9F). The first line of the message is always
a
.BR CE_WARN ,
with the continuation lines being
.BR CE_CONT .
.I sensep
may be
.IR NULL ,
in which case no sense key or vendor
information is displayed.
.sp
.LP
The driver should make the determination as to when to call this function
based on the severity of the failure and the severity level that the driver
wants to report.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR scsi_device "(9S) structure denoted by"
.I devp
supplies the
identification of the device that requested the display. \fIseverity\fR
selects which string is used in the "Error Level:" reporting, according to
the following table:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.68i) cw(2.76i) cw(.06i)
lw(2.68i) lw(2.76i) lw(.06i)
.
\fBSeverity Value:\fR\fBString:\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_ALL\fR\fBAll\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_UNKNOWN\fR\fBUnknown\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_INFO\fR\fBInformational\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_RECOVERE\fR\fBRecovered\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_RETRYABL\fR\fBRetryable\fR
\fBSCSI_ERR_FATAL\fR\fBFatal\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
.I blkno
is the block number of the original request that generated the
error.
.I err_blkno
is the block number where the error occurred.
.I cmdlist
is a mapping table for translating the
.B SCSI
command code
in
.I pktp
to the actual command string.
.sp
.LP
The
.I cmdlist
is described in the structure below:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct scsi_key_strings {
        int key;
        char *message;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For a basic
.B SCSI
disk, the following list is appropriate:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
static struct scsi_key_strings scsi_cmds[] = {
        0x00, "test unit ready",
        0x01, "rezero/rewind",
        0x03, "request sense",
        0x04, "format",
        0x07, "reassign",
        0x08, "read",
        0x0a, "write",
        0x0b, "seek",
        0x12, "inquiry",
        0x15, "mode select",
        0x16, "reserve",
        0x17, "release",
        0x18, "copy",
        0x1a, "mode sense",
        0x1b, "start/stop",
        0x1e, "door lock",
        0x28, "read(10)",
        0x2a, "write(10)",
        0x2f, "verify",
        0x37, "read defect data",
        0x3b, "write buffer",
        -1, NULL
};
.fi
.in -2

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_errmsg()
function may be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Generating error information.
.sp
.LP
This entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
scsi_errmsg(devp, pkt, "sd", SCSI_ERR_INFO, bp->b_blkno,
         err_blkno, sd_cmds, rqsense);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Generates:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBWARNING: /sbus@1,f8000000/esp@0,800000/sd@1,0 (sd1):
Error for Command: read Error Level: Informational
Requested Block: 23936 Error Block: 23936
Vendor: QUANTUM Serial Number: 123456
Sense Key:  Unit Attention
ASC: 0x29 (reset), ASCQ: 0x0, FRU: 0x0\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cmn_err (9F),
.BR scsi_log (9F),
.BR scsi_device (9S),
.BR scsi_extended_sense (9S),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
