'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. , All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_setup_cdb 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_setup_cdb \- setup SCSI command descriptor block (CDB)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscsi_setup_cdb\fR(\fBunion scsi_cdb\fR \fI*cdbp\fR, \fBuchar_t\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIaddr\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fIcnt\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIothr_cdb_data\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cdbp
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Pointer to command descriptor block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmd
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The first byte of the
.B SCSI
group 0, 1, 2, 4, or 5
.BR CDB .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I addr
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Pointer to the location of the data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cnt
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Data transfer length in units defined by the SCSI device type. For sequential
devices
.I cnt
is the number of bytes. For block devices,
.I cnt
is the
number of blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I othr_cdb_data
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Additional
.B CDB
data.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_setup_cdb()
function initializes a group 0, 1, 2, 4, or 5 type of
command descriptor block pointed to by
.I cdbp
using
.IR cmd ,
.IR addr ,
.IR cnt ,
.IR othr_cdb_data .
.sp
.LP
.I addr
should be set to 0 for commands having no addressing information (for
example, group 0 READ command for sequential access devices).
.I othr_cdb_data
should be additional
.B CDB
data for Group 4 commands; otherwise, it should be
set to 0.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_setup_cdb()
function does not set the
.B LUN
bits in
\fBCDB\fR[1] as the  \fBmakecom\fR(9F) functions do.  Also, the fixed bit for
sequential access device commands is not set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_setup_cdb()
function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Upon success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Upon failure.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from a user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR makecom (9F),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I "American National Standard Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)
.sp
.LP
.I "American National Standard SCSI-3 Primary Commands (SPC)
