'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_cname 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_cname, scsi_dname, scsi_mname, scsi_rname, scsi_sname \- decode a SCSI
name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBchar *\fBscsi_cname\fR(\fBuchar_t\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBchar **\fIcmdvec\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBscsi_dname\fR(\fBint\fR \fIdtype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBscsi_mname\fR(\fBuchar_t\fR \fImsg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBscsi_rname\fR(\fBuchar_t\fR \fIreason\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBscsi_sname\fR(\fBuchar_t\fR \fIsense_key\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmd
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A
.B SCSI
command value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmdvec
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to an array of command strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dtype
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Device type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I msg
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A message value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I reason
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A packet reason value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sense_key
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A
.B SCSI
sense key value.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_cname()
function decodes
.B SCSI
.RI commands. " cmdvec"
is a pointer to an array of strings. The first byte of the string is the
command value, and the remainder is the name of the command.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_dname()
function decodes the peripheral device type (for
example, direct access or sequential access) in the inquiry data.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_mname()
function decodes
.B SCSI
messages.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_rname()
function decodes packet completion reasons.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_sname()
function decodes
.B SCSI
sense keys.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return a pointer to a string. If an argument is invalid,
they return a string to that effect.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Decoding SCSI tape commands.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_cname()
function decodes
.B SCSI
tape commands as
follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
static char *st_cmds[] = {
            "\e000test unit ready",
            "\e001rewind",	
            "\e003request sense",
            "\e010read",
            "\e012write",
            "\e020write file mark",
            "\e021space",
            "\e022inquiry",
            "\e025mode select",
            "\e031erase tape",
            "\e032mode sense",
            "\e033load tape",
            NULL
    };
    ..
    cmn_err(CE_CONT, "st: cmd=%s", scsi_cname(cmd, st_cmds));
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
