'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_hba_lookup_capstr 9F "13 May 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_hba_lookup_capstr \- return index matching capability string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBscsi_hba_lookup_capstr\fR(\fBchar *\fIcapstr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I capstr
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to a string
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_hba_lookup_capstr()
function attempts to match
.IR capstr
against a known set of capability strings. If found, the defined index for
the matched capability is returned.
.sp
.LP
The following indices are defined for the capability strings listed
below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_DMA_MAX
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBdma-max\fR" or "\fBdma_max\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_MSG_OUT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBmsg-out\fR" or "\fBmsg_out\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_DISCONNECT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBdisconnect\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_SYNCHRONOUS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBsynchronous\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_WIDE_XFER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBwide-xfer\fR" or "\fBwide_xfer\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_PARITY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBparity\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_INITIATOR_ID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBinitiator-id\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_UNTAGGED_QING
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBuntagged-qing\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_TAGGED_QING
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBtagged-qing\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_ARQ
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBauto-rqsense\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_LINKED_CMDS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBlinked-cmds\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_SECTOR_SIZE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBsector-size\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_TOTAL_SECTORS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBtotal-sectors\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_GEOMETRY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBgeometry\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_RESET_NOTIFICATION
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBreset-notification\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_QFULL_RETRIES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBqfull-retries\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_QFULL_RETRY_INTERVAL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBqfull-retry-interval\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_LUN_RESET
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBlun-reset\fR"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCSI_CAP_CDB_LEN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
"\fBmax-cdb-length\fR"
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_hba_lookup_capstr()
function returns a non-negative index
value that corresponds to the capability string. If the string does not
match a known capability,
.B -1
is returned.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_hba_lookup_capstr()
function can be called from user,
interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR tran_getcap (9E),
.BR tran_setcap (9E),
.BR scsi_ifgetcap (9F),
\fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(9F), \fBscsi_reset_notify\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
