'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_sync_pkt 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_sync_pkt \- synchronize CPU and I/O views of memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBscsi_sync_pkt\fR(\fBstruct scsi_pkt *\fIpktp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pktp
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_pkt "(9S) structure."
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
function is used to selectively synchronize a
\fBCPU\fR's or device's view of the data associated with the \fBSCSI\fR
packet that has been mapped for
.BR I/O .
This may involve operations such
as flushes of
.B CPU
or
.B I/O
caches, as well as other more complex
operations such as stalling until hardware write buffers have drained.
.sp
.LP
This function need only be called under certain circumstances. When a
.B SCSI
packet is mapped for
.B I/O
using
.BR scsi_init_pkt "(9F) and"
destroyed using
.BR scsi_destroy_pkt "(9F), then an implicit"
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
will be performed. However, if the memory object has
been modified by either the device or a
.B CPU
after the mapping by
.BR scsi_init_pkt (9F),
then a call to
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
is required.
.sp
.LP
If the same scsi_pkt is reused for a data transfer from memory to a device,
then
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
must be called before calling
.BR scsi_transport (9F).
If the same packet is reused for a data transfer
from a device to memory
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
must be called after the
completion of the packet but before accessing the data in memory.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_sync_pkt()
function may be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR tran_sync_pkt (9E),
.BR ddi_dma_sync (9F),
.BR scsi_destroy_pkt (9F),
.BR scsi_init_pkt (9F),
.BR scsi_transport (9F),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
