'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_abort 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_abort \- abort a SCSI command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint\fBscsi_abort\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fIap\fR, \fBstruct scsi_pkt *\fIpkt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ap
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B scsi_address
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pkt
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_pkt "(9S) structure."
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_abort()
function terminates a command that has been
transported to the host adapter driver. A
.I "NULL pkt"
causes all
outstanding packets to be aborted. On a successful abort, the
.B pkt_reason
is set to
.B CMD_ABORTED
and
.B pkt_statistics
is
\fBOR\fR'ed with
.BR STAT_ABORTED .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_abort()
function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
on failure.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_abort()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Terminating a command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBif (scsi_abort(&devp->sd_address, pkt) == 0) {
        (void) scsi_reset(&devp->sd_address, RESET_ALL);
}\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR tran_abort (9E),
.BR scsi_reset (9F),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
