'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH stoi 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
stoi, numtos \- convert between an integer and a decimal string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstoi\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**str\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnumtos\fR(\fBunsigned long\fR \fInum\fR, \fBchar *\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I str
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to a character string to be converted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I num
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Decimal number to be converted to a character string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I s
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Character buffer to hold converted decimal number.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "\fBstoi()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B stoi()
function returns the integer value of a string of decimal
numeric characters beginning at
.IR **str .
No overflow checking is done.
.I *str
is updated to point at the last character examined.
.SS "\fBnumtos()\fR"
.sp
.LP
The
.B numtos()
function converts a
.B long
into a null-terminated
character string. No bounds checking is done. The caller must ensure there
is enough space to hold the result.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B stoi()
function returns the integer value of the string
.IR str .
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B stoi()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B stoi()
function handles only positive integers; it does not
handle leading minus signs.
