'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH taskq 9F "1 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
taskq, ddi_taskq_create, ddi_taskq_destroy, ddi_taskq_dispatch,
ddi_taskq_wait, ddi_taskq_suspend, taskq_suspended, ddi_taskq_resume \-
Kernel task queue operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBddi_taskq_t *\fBddi_taskq_create\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR, \fBconst char *\fIname\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fInthreads\fR, \fBpri_t\fR  \fIpri\fR, \fBuint_t\fR  \fIcflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_taskq_destroy\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_taskq_dispatch\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR, \fBvoid (*\fR \fIfunc)\fR(void *),
     \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIdflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_taskq_wait\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_taskq_suspend\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fBddi_taskq_suspended\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_taskq_resume\fR(\fBddi_taskq_t *\fItq\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the device's dev_info structure. May be NULL for kernel
modules that do not have an associated dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Descriptive string. Only alphanumeric characters can be used            in
name and spaces are not allowed. The name should be unique.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nthreads
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Number of threads servicing the task queue. Note that the request ordering
is guaranteed (tasks are processed in the order scheduled) if the
.B taskq
is created with a single servicing thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pri
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Priority of threads servicing the task queue. Drivers and modules should
specify TASKQ_DEFAULTPRI.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cflags
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Should pass 0 as flags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I func
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Callback function to call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I arg
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Argument to the callback function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dflags
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Possible
.I dflags
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SLEEP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Allow sleeping (blocking) until memory is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_NOSLEEP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Return DDI_FAILURE immediately if memory is not available.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tq
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to a task queue (ddi_taskq_t *).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tp
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to a thread structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A kernel task queue is a mechanism for general-purpose asynchronous task
scheduling that enables tasks to be performed at a later time by another
thread. There are several reasons why you may utilize asynchronous task
scheduling:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
You have a task that isn't time-critical, but a current code path that
is.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
You have a task that may require grabbing locks that a thread already
holds.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
You have a task that needs to block (for example, to wait for memory), but
a have a thread that cannot block in its current context.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
You have a code path that can't complete because of a specific condition,
but also can't sleep or fail. In this case, the task is immediately queued
and then is executed after the condition disappears.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
A task queue is just a simple way to launch multiple tasks in parallel.
.RE
.sp
.LP
A task queue consists of a list of tasks, together with one or more threads
to service the list. If a task queue has a single service thread, all tasks
are guaranteed to execute in the order they were dispatched. Otherwise they
can be executed in any order. Note that since tasks are placed on a list,
execution of one task and should not depend on the execution of another task
or a deadlock may occur. A
.B taskq
created with a single servicing
thread guarantees that all the tasks are serviced in the order in which they
are scheduled.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_create()
function creates a task queue instance.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_dispatch()
function places
.B taskq
on the list for
later execution. The
.I dflag
argument specifies whether it is allowed
sleep waiting  for memory. DDI_SLEEP dispatches can sleep and are guaranteed
to succeed. DDI_NOSLEEP dispatches are guaranteed not to sleep but may fail
(return
.BR DDI_FAILURE )
if resources are not available.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_destroy()
function waits for any scheduled tasks to
complete, then destroys the
.BR taskq .
The caller should guarantee that no
new tasks are scheduled for the closing
.BR taskq .
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_wait()
function waits for all previously scheduled
tasks to complete. Note that this function does not stop any new task
dispatches.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_suspend()
function suspends all task execution until
.B ddi_taskq_resume()
is called. Although
.B ddi_taskq_suspend()
attempts to suspend pending tasks, there are no guarantees that they will be
suspended. The only guarantee is that all tasks dispatched after
.B ddi_taskq_suspend()
will not be executed. Because it will trigger a
deadlock, the
.B ddi_taskq_suspend()
function should never be called by a
task executing on a
.BR taskq .
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_suspended()
function returns
.B B_TRUE
if
.B taskq
is suspended, and
.B B_FALSE
otherwise. It is intended to
ASSERT that the task queue is suspended.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_resume()
function resumes task queue execution.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_create()
function creates an opaque handle that is used
for all other
.B taskq
operations. It returns a
.B taskq
pointer on
success and NULL on failure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_dispatch()
function returns
.B DDI_FAILURE
if it
can't dispatch a task and returns
.B DDI_SUCCESS
if dispatch succeeded.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ddi_taskq_suspended()
function returns
.B B_TRUE
if
.B taskq
is suspended. Otherwise
.B B_FALSE
is returned.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
All functions may be called from the user or kernel contexts.
.sp
.LP
Addtionally, the
.B ddi_taskq_dispatch
function may be called from the
interrupt context only if the DDI_NOSLEEP flag is set.
