'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH unlinkb 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
unlinkb \- remove a message block from the head of a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBmblk_t *\fBunlinkb\fR(\fBmblk_t *\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mp
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to the message.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B unlinkb()
function removes the first message block from the
message pointed to by
.IR mp .
A new message, minus the removed message
block, is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the
.B unlinkb()
function returns a pointer to the
message with the first message block removed. If there is only one message
block in the message,
.I NULL
is returned.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B unlinkb()
function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1 unlinkb()
example
.sp
.LP
The routine expects to get passed an
.B "M_PROTO T_DATA_IND"
message. It
will remove and free the
.B M_PROTO
header and return the remaining
.B M_DATA
portion of the message.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
1  mblk_t *
2  makedata(mp)
3      mblk_t *mp;
4  {
5	mblk_t *nmp;
6
7	nmp = unlinkb(mp);
8	freeb(mp);
9	return(nmp);
10 }
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR linkb (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
