'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH usb_get_addr 9F "Feb 9 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_get_addr \- Retrieve device USB address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>

\fBint\fR \fBusb_get_addr\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B usb_get_addr()
function returns the current USB bus address for
debugging purposes. The returned address is unique for a specific USB bus,
and may be replicated if multiple host controller instances are present on
the system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success: USB device address.
.sp
.LP
On failure: returns 0. Fails if dip is NULL.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
May be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int usb_addr;

usb_addr = usb_get_addr(dip);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
_
AvailabilitySUNWusb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR usb_pipe_open (9F)
