'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH icmp 7P "3 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "Protocols"
.SH NAME
icmp, ICMP \- Internet Control Message Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <netinet/in.h>
#include <netinet/ip_icmp.h>
s = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_RAW, proto);
t = t_open("/dev/icmp", O_RDWR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ICMP
is the error and control message protocol used by the Internet
protocol family. It is used by the kernel to handle and report errors in
protocol processing. It may also be accessed by programs using the socket
interface or the Transport Level Interface (\fBTLI\fR) for network
monitoring and diagnostic functions. When used with the socket interface, a
"raw socket" type is used. The protocol number for \fBICMP,\fR used in the
.I proto
parameter to the socket call, can be obtained from
.BR getprotobyname (3SOCKET).
.B ICMP
file descriptors and sockets are
connectionless, and are normally used with the
.B t_sndudata
/
.B t_rcvudata
and the
.B sendto()
/
.B recvfrom()
calls.
.sp
.LP
Outgoing packets automatically have an Internet Protocol (\fBIP\fR) header
prepended to them. Incoming packets are provided to the user with the
.B IP
header and options intact.
.sp
.LP
.B ICMP
is an datagram protocol layered above
.B IP.
It is used
internally by the protcol code for various purposes including routing, fault
isolation, and congestion control. Receipt of an \fBICMP\fR "redirect"
message will add a new entry in the routing table, or modify an existing
one.
.B ICMP
messages are routinely sent by the protocol code. Received
.B ICMP
messages may be reflected back to users of higher-level protocols
such as
.B TCP
or
.B UDP
as error returns from system calls. A copy of
all
.B ICMP
message received by the system is provided to every holder of
an open
.B ICMP
socket or
.B TLI
descriptor.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getprotobyname (3SOCKET),
.BR recv (3SOCKET),
.BR send (3SOCKET),
.BR t_rcvudata (3NSL),
.BR t_sndudata (3NSL),
.BR inet (7P),
.BR ip (7P),
.BR routing (7P)
.sp
.LP
Postel, Jon, \fIInternet Control Message Protocol \(em DARPA Internet
Program Protocol Specification\fR, \fBRFC\fR 792, Network Information
Center,
.B SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif., September 1981.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EISCONN
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
An attempt was made to establish a connection on a socket which already has
one, or when trying to send a datagram with the destination address
specified and the socket is already connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTCONN
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
An attempt was made to send a datagram, but no destination address is
specified, and the socket has not been connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The system ran out of memory for an internal data structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EADDRNOTAVAIL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
An attempt was made to create a socket with a network address for which no
network interface exists.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Replies to \fBICMP\fR "echo" messages which are source routed are not sent
back using inverted source routes, but rather go back through the normal
routing mechanisms.
