'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipsecah 7P "25 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Protocols"
.SH NAME
ipsecah, AH \- IPsec Authentication Header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdrv/ipsecah\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipsecah
module
.RB ( AH )
provides strong integrity,  authentication,
and partial sequence integrity (replay protection) to
.B IP
datagrams.
.B AH
protects the parts of the
.B IP
datagram that can be predicted by the
.RB "sender as it will be received by the receiver. For example, the" " IP"
.B TTL
field is not a predictable field, and is not protected by
.BR AH .
.sp
.LP
.B AH
is inserted between the
.B IP
header and the transport header. The
transport header can be
.BR TCP ,
.BR UDP ,
.BR ICMP ,
or another
.BR IP
header, if tunnels are  being used.
.SS "AH Device"
.sp
.LP
AH is implemented as a module that is auto-pushed on top of IP. The entry
.B /dev/ipsecah
is used for tuning AH with
.BR ndd (1M).
.SS "Authentication Algorithms"
.sp
.LP
Current authentication algorithms supported include HMAC-MD5 and HMAC-SHA-1.
Each authentication algorithm has its own key size and key format properties.
You
can obtain a list of authentication algorithms and their properties by using
the
.BR ipsecalgs (1M)
command. You can also use the functions described in the
.BR getipsecalgbyname (3NSL)
man page to retrieve the properties of
algorithms.
.SS "Security Considerations"
.sp
.LP
Without replay protection enabled,
.B AH
is vulnerable to replay attacks.
.B AH
does not protect against eavesdropping. Data protected with
.B AH
can
still be seen by an adversary.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipsecalgs (1M),
.BR ipsecconf (1M),
.BR ndd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR getipsecalgbyname (3NSL),
.BR ip (7P),
.BR ipsec (7P),
.BR ipsecesp (7P)

.sp
.LP
Kent, S. and Atkinson, R.\fIRFC 2402, IP Authentication Header\fR, The Internet
Society, 1998.
