'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH atge 7D "11 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
atge \- Device driver for Atheros/Attansic Ethernet chipsets
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B atge
ethernet driver is GLD based supporting the Atheros/Attansic
L1E Gigabit Ethernet 10/100/1000 Base (AR8121/AR8113) chipsets:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pciex1969,1026 Atheros/Attansic GigabitE 10/100/1000 Base (AR8121/AR8113)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The
.B atge
driver supports IEEE 802.3 auto-negotiation, flow control and
VLAN tagging.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The default configuration is auto-negotiation with bi-directional flow
control. The advertised capabilities for auto-negotiation are based on the
capabilities of the
.BR PHY .
.sp
.LP
You can set the capabilities advertised by the
.B atge
controlled device
using
.BR dladm "(1M). The driver supports only those parameters which begin"
with en (enabled) in the parameters listed by the command
.BR dladm (1M).
Each
of these boolean parameters determines if the device advertises that mode of
operation when the hardware supports it.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/atge
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Special character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/atge
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
32-bit device drive (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/atge
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit device driver (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attribute:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR ndd (1M),
.BR netstat (1M),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ieee802.3 (5),
.BR dlpi (7P),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I Network Interface Guide
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programmer's Guide
.sp
.LP
.I IEEE 802.3ae Specification, 2002
