'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audioemu10k 7D "2 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audioemu10k \- Creative EMU10K audio device support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audioemu10k
driver provides support for the Creative EMU 10K1 and
10K2 family of audio devices. These are typically marketed under the Audigy
or Sound Blaster Live! brands.
.sp
.LP
This device driver is capable of 5.1 or 7.1 surround sound and SPDIF
playback and record, depending on the capabilities of the individual
device.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audioemu10k
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audioemu10k
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudioemu10k
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
