'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiosolo 7D "18 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiosolo \- ESS Solo-1 audio device support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiosolo
driver provides support for the ESS Solo-1 audio
device. This device is found on certain motherboards and discrete audio
cards. It supports 16-bit 48 kHZ stereo playback and capture.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiosolo
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audiosolo
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudiosolo
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
