'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiop16x 7D "8 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiop16x \- Creative Sound Blaster Live! OEM support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiop16x
driver provides support for the Creative Sound Blaster
Live! products based on the P16X device. These chips are also known as the
.B EMU10K1X
device, not to be confused with the
.BR EMU10K1 .
.sp
.LP
Add-in boards known to work with this driver are Sound Blaster Live! cards
with model numbers SB0200 or SB0213.
.sp
.LP
This device is capable of 5.1 surround sound.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiop16x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audiop16x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/audiop16x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86, SPARC
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudiop16x
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
