'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiocs 7D "12 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiocs \- Crystal Semiconductor 4231 Audio driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiocs
driver supports the Crystal Semiconductor 4231 Codec to
implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiocs
device provides support for the internal speaker,
headphone, line out, line in, microphone, and, on some platforms, internal
CD-ROM audio in.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B audiocs
errors are described in the
.BR audio "(7I) manual page."
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/audiocs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit
.B audiocs
driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiocs.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B audiocs
driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudd
_
Stability levelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
Crystal Semiconductor, Inc.
.B CS4231
Data Sheet
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the
system console:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too low
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate specified in
.B audiocs.conf
is set too low. It is
being reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiocs.conf\fR
to a higher interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too high
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too high
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate specified in
.B audiocs.conf
is set too high. It is
being reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiocs.conf\fR
to a lower interrupt rate.
.RE

