'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiohd 7D "12 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiohd \- Intel High Definition Audio Controller support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiohd
driver provides support for the generic codec chips which
are compatible with the Intel High-Definition Audio Controller 1.0
specification.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiohd.conf
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
.B audiohd
driver configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiohd
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
32-bit x86 kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audiohd
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
64-bit x86 kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePC-based system
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudiohd
_
Stability levelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
.I Intel High-Definition Audio Specification 1.0.
- Intel Corporation
.sp
.LP
.I ALC880 Specification
\(em Realtek Inc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the
system console:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too low
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate in
.B audiohd.conf
is set too low. It has been reset
to the rate specified in the message. Update
.B audiohd.conf
to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B redcord-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too high
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate in
.B audiohd.conf
is set too low. It has been reset
to the rate specified in the message. Update
.B audiohd.conf
to a higher
interrupt rate
.RE

