'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiots 7D "12 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiots \- Acer Laboratories Inc. M5451 audio processor interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiots
device uses the ALI M5451 audio processor and an AC-97
Codec to implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The
.B audiots
device provides support for the internal speaker,
headphone, line out, line in, and microphone.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/audiots
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit
.B audiots
driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiots.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.B audiots
driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudd
_
Stability levelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
Acer Laboratories Inc.
.B M5451
PCI Audio Processor Technical
Specification
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the
system console:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too low
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate in
.B audiots.conf
is set too low. It has been reset
to the rate specified in the message. Update
.B audiots.conf
to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too high
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too high
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate set in
.B audiots.conf
is set too high. It has been
reset to the rate specified in the message. Update
.B audiots.conf
to a
lower interrupt rate.
.RE

