'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audiovia823x 7D "12 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiovia823x \- VIA VT8233, VT8235, and VT8237) support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiovia823\fIx\fR driver provides support for the VIA VT8233,
VT8235, and VT8237 AC'97 devices found on motherboards with certain VIA chip
sets.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audiovia823x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit x86 kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audiovia823x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.27i) |cw(3.23i)
lw(2.27i) |lw(3.23i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWvia823x
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR dsp (7I),
.BR mixer (7I)
