'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audio1575 7D "13 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audio1575 \- Uli M1575 Super South Bridge audio digital controller
interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audio1575
device uses the Uli M1575 AC97-compatible audio digital
controller and an AC-97 Codec to implement the audio device interface. This
interface allows analog only inputs and outputs.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/audio1575
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audio1575.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWaudd
_
Stability levelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIUli M1575 Super South Bridge Data Sheet Data Sheet\fR\(em Uli USA Inc.
.sp
.LP
\fIAD1981B AC '97 SoundMAX(R) Codec Data Sheet\fR\(em Analog Devices Inc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages might appear on the
system console:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too low
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate specified in
.B audio1575.conf
is set too low. It has
been reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudio1575.conf\fR
to a higher interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too high
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too high
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate specified in
.B audio1575.conf
is set too high. It
has been reset to the rate specified in the message. Update
.B audio1575.conf
to a lower interrupt rate.
.RE

