'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audioixp 7D "12 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audioixp \- ATI IXP400 south bridge audio digital controller interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B audioixp
device uses the IXP400 south bridge audio digital
controller and a AC-97 Codec to implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The
.B audioixp
device  provides  support  for  the internal speaker,
headphone, line out, line in, and microphone.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/kernel/drv/audioixp.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Driver configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/audioixp
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/audioixp
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
64-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i)
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePC-based system
_
AvailabilitySUNWadixp
_
Stability levelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR audio (7I),
.BR mixer (7I),
.BR streamio (7I)
.sp
.LP
.I "ATI IXP400 South Bridge Data Sheet
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages may appear on the
system console:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too low
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too low
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate in \fBaudioixp.conf\fR is set too low. It has been reset
to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudioixp.conf\fR to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B play-interrupts too high
.ad
.br
.na
.B record-interrupts too high
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The interrupt rate set in \fBaudioixp.conf\fR is set too high. It has been
reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudioixp.conf\fR to a
lower interrupt rate.
.RE

