'\" te
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dad 7D "24 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
dad \- driver for IDE disk devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdad@\fR \fItarget\fR,\fIlun\fR:\fIpartition\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This driver handles the ide disk drives on SPARC platforms. The type of
disk drive is determined using the ATA IDE identify device command and by
reading the volume label stored on the drive. The
.B dad
device driver
supports the Solaris SPARC VTOC and the EFI/GPT disk volume labels.
.sp
.LP
The block-files access the disk using the system's normal buffering
mechanism and are read and written without  regard to physical disk records.
There is also a "raw" interface that provides for direct transmission
between the disk and the user's read or write buffer.  A single read or
write call usually results in one I/O operation; raw I/O is therefore
considerably more efficient when many bytes are transmitted.  The names of
the block files are found in
.BR /dev/dsk .
Raw file names are found in
.BR /dev/rdsk .
.sp
.LP
I/O requests to the raw device must be aligned on a 512-byte
(\fBDEV_BSIZE\fR) boundary and must have a length that is a multiple of 512
bytes. Requests that do not meet the restrictions cause the driver to return
an
.B EINVAL
error. I/O requests to the block device have no alignment or
length restrictions.
.SS "Device Statistics Support"
.sp
.LP
Each device maintains I/O statistics both for the device and for each
partition allocated on that device. For each device/partition, the driver
accumulates reads, writes, bytes read, and bytes written. The driver also
takes hi-resolution time stamps at queue entry and exit points, which
facilitates monitoring the residence time and cumulative residence-length
product for each queue.
.sp
.LP
Each device also has error statistics associated with it. These must
include counters for hard errors, soft errors and transport errors. Other
data may be implemented as required.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/dev/dsk/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBd\fIn\fBs\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
block files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/dev/rdsk/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBd\fIn\fBs\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
raw files
.RE

.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBc\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
controller
.IR n
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBt\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
IDE target id
.I n
(0-3)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBd\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Always 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBs\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
partition
.I n
(0-7)
.RE

.sp
.LP
The target ide numbers are assigned as:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Master disk on Primary channel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Slave disk on Primary channel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Master disk on Secondary channel
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Slave disk on Secondary channel.
.RE

.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
Refer to
.BR dkio (7I).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Permission denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBUSY
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The partition was opened exclusively by another thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Argument was a bad address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Invalid argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
 I/O error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTTY
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The device does not  support the requested ioctl function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The device did not exist during opening.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EROFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The device is a read-only device.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR format (1M),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR vfstab (4),
.BR dkio (7I)
.sp
.LP
X3T10 ATA-4 specifications.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCommand:<\fInumber\fR>\fR, Error:<\fInumber\fR>,
Status:<\fInumber\fR>\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the command failed with an error and provides status
register contents. Where <\fInumber\fR> is a hexadecimal value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBoffline\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The driver has decided that the target disk is no longer there.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disk ok
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The target disk is now responding again.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B disk not responding to selection
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The target disk is not responding.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B i/o to invalid geometry
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The geometry of the drive could not be established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B incomplete read/write - retrying/giving up
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There was a residue after the command completed normally.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBno bp for disk label\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A bp with consistent memory could not be allocated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBno memory for disk label\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Free memory pool exhausted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBATA transport failed: reason 'nnnn': {retrying|giving}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The host adapter has failed to transport a command to the target for the
reason stated. The driver will either retry the command or, ultimately, give
up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBno mem for property\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Free memory pool exhausted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B transport rejected (<n>)
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Host adapter driver was unable to accept a command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Device Fault
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device fault - reason for such error is vendor specific.
.RE

