'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dca 7D "14 Aug 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
dca \- Crypto Accelerator device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5454@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5455@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5456@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5820@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5821@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5822@\fIpci-slot\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dca
device driver is a multi-threaded, loadable hardware driver
supporting Sun PCI-based (\fBpci108e,5454\fR) cryptographic accelerators,
such as the Sun Crypto Accelerator 1000.
.sp
.LP
The
.B dca
driver requires the presence of  Solaris Cryptographic
Framework for applications and kernel clients to access the provided
services.
.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dca
driver maintains the following statistics:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3desjobs
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for 3DES encryption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 3desbytes
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of bytes submitted to the device for 3DES encryption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rsapublic
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for RSA public key
operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rsaprivate
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for RSA private key
operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dsasign
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for DSA signing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B dsaverify
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for DSA verification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rngjobs
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted for pure entropy generation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rngbytes
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of bytes of pure entropy requested from the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rngsha1jobs
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of jobs submitted for entropy generation, with SHA-1
post-processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rngsha1bytes
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Total number of bytes of entropy requested from the device, with SHA-1
post-processing.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Additional statistics may be supplied for Sun support personnel,  but are
not useful to end users and are not documented here.
.sp
.LP
The
.B dca
driver can be configured by defining properties in
.B /kernel/drv/dca.conf
which override the default settings. The
following properties are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nostats
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables the generation of statistics. This property may be used to help
prevent traffic analysis, but this may inhibit support personnel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rngdirect
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables the SHA-1 post-processing of generated entropy. This may give
"truer" random numbers, but it may also introduce the risk of external
biases influencing the distribution of generated random numbers.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC
_
AvailabilitySUNWdcar
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/dca.conf
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
.B dca
configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/dca
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel driver (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/dca
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/dca
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel driver (AMD64)
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cryptoadm (1M),
.BR kstat (1M),
.BR prtconf (1M),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Cryptographic Framework.
