'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dr 7d "29 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
dr, drmach, ngdr, ngdrmach \- Sun Enterprise 10000  dynamic reconfiguration
driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdr\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdrmach\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBngdr\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBngdrmach\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The dynamic reconfiguration (DR) driver consists of a platform-independent
driver and a platform-specific module. The DR driver uses standard features
of the Solaris operating environment whenever possible to control DR
operations and calls the platform specific module as needed. The DR driver
creates minor nodes in the file system that serve as attachment points for
DR operations.
.sp
.LP
The DR driver provides a pseudo-driver interface to sequence attach and
detach operations on system boards using file system entry points referred
to as "attachment points." The attachment point form depends on the
platform.
.SS "Sun Enterprise 10000 Server"
.sp
.LP
On the Sun Enterprise 10000 server, the DR driver consists of a
platform-independent driver
.RB ( ngdr )
and a platform-specific module
.RB ( ngdrmach ).
.sp
.LP
The domain configuration server (DCS) accepts DR requests from the system
services processor (SSP) and uses the
.BR libcfgadm (3LIB)
interface to
initiate the DR operation. After the operation is performed, the results are
returned to the SSP. For more information about the DCS on the Sun
Enterprise 10000, refer to the
.BR dcs (1M)
man page and the
.IR "Sun Enterprise 10000 Dynamic Reconfiguration User Guide" .
.sp
.LP
The DR driver creates physical attachment points for system board slots
that takes the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/pseudo/ngdr@0:SB\fIx\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Where
.I x
represents the slot number (0 to 15) for a particular
board.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR cfgadm_sbd (1M)
plugin creates dynamic attachment points that
refer to components on system boards, including CPUs, memory, or I/O
devices. Refer to the
.BR cfgadm_sbd (1M)
man page for more details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cfgadm_sbd (1M),
.BR ioctl (2),
.B libcfgadm(3LIB)
.sp
.LP
.I "Sun Enterprise 10000 Dynamic Reconfiguration User Guide
