'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fasttrap 7D "4 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
fasttrap \- DTrace user instruction tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fasttrap
driver is a DTrace dynamic tracing provider that
performs dynamic instrumentation of arbitrary instructions in Solaris
processes. The \fBfasttrap\fR driver implements the DTrace \fBfasttrap\fR
and
.B pid
providers.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fasttrap
driver is not a public interface and you access
instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
for a description of the public
documented interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes
offered by the
.B fasttrap
provider.
.SH SPARC ONLY
.sp
.LP
The
.B fasttrap
provider provides a DTrace probe that fires each time a
user process executes an instruction. The
.B pid
provider allows for the
dynamic creation of DTrace probes corresponding to instruction locations
inside any user process specified using a process ID and an instruction
address or symbol name. Together these providers permit DTrace users to
perform instrumentation of Solaris user processes and to trace the
interactions between processes and the operating system. See the chapter
entitled "User Process Tracing"  in the \fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR
for information on how to use these providers to instrument processes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdtrp
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dtrace (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
