'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fp 7d "10 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
fp \- Sun Fibre Channel port driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fp
driver is a Sun fibre channel nexus driver that enables fibre
channel topology discovery, device discovery, fibre channel adapter port
management and other capabilities through well-defined fibre channel adapter
driver interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fp
driver requires the presence of a fabric name server in fabric
and public loop topologies to discover fibre channel devices. In private
loop topologies, the driver discovers devices by performing
.B PLOGI
to
all valid
.BR AL_PA "s, provided that devices do not participate in"
.B LIRP
and
.B LILP
stages of loop initialization. The
.B fp
driver
also discovers devices in N_Port point-to-point topologies.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fp
driver is configured by defining  properties in the
.B fp.conf
file. Note that you must reboot the system to have any changes
.RB "you make to " fp.conf " take effect. The " fp " driver supports the"
following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mpxio-disable
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris I/O multipathing is enabled or disabled on fibre channel devices
with the mpxio-disable property. Specifying mpxio-disable="no" activates I/O
multipathing, while mpxio-disable="yes" disables the feature. Solaris I/O
multipathing may be enabled or disabled on a per port basis. Per port
settings override the global setting for the specified ports. The following
example shows how to disable multipathing on port 0 whose parent is
/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@4:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
name="fp"    parent="/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@4"    port=0
mpxio-disable="yes";
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B manual_configuration_only
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Automatic configuration of SCSI devices in the fabric is enabled by default
and thus allows all devices discovered in the SAN zone to  be enumerated  in
the kernel's device tree automatically. The
.B manual_configuration_only
property may be configured  to disable the default behavior and force the
manual configuration of the devices in the SAN. Specifying
manual_configuration_only=1 disables the automatic configuration of
devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pwwn-lun-blacklist
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows you to specify target port WWNs and LUN numbers you do not want
configured. LUN numbers are interpreted as decimals. White spaces and commas
(',') can be used in the list of LUN numbers.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     #
     # pwwn-lun-blacklist=
     # "target-port-wwn,lun-list"
     #
     # To prevent LUNs 1 and 2 from being configured for target
     # port 510000f010fd92a1 and target port 510000e012079df1, set:
     #
     # pwwn-lun-blacklist=
     # "510000f010fd92a1,1,2",
     # "510000e012079df1,1,2";
     #
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/fp
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/fp
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/fp
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel driver (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/fp.conf
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
.B fp
driver configuration file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
mpxio-disableUncommitted
_
manual_configuration_onlyObsolete
_
AvailabilitySUNWfctl
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR cfgadm_fp (1M),
.BR prtconf (1M),
.BR stmsboot (1M),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR fcp (7D),
.BR fctl (7D),
.BR scsi_vhci (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Physical and Signaling Interface (FC-PH) ANSI X3.230:
1994\fR
.sp
.LP
.I "Fibre Channel Generic Services (FC-GS-2) Project 1134-D
.sp
.LP
.I "Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL) ANSI X3.272-1996
.sp
.LP
.I "Fibre Channel Protocol for SCSI (FCP) ANSI X3.269-1996
.sp
.LP
\fISCSI-3 Architecture Model (SAM) Fibre Channel Private Loop SCSI Direct
Attach (FC-PLDA) ANSI X3.270-1996\fR
.sp
.LP
.I "SCSI Direct Attach (FC-PLDA) ANSI X3.270-1996
.sp
.LP
.I "SCSI Direct Attach (FC-PLDA) NCITS TR-19:1998
.sp
.LP
.I "Fabric Loop Attachment (FC-FLA), NCITS TR-20:1998
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In N_Port point-to-point topologies, FCP error recovery does not work
across events such as link bounce/cable pull. I/O to devices with
FCP-2/FCP-3 support (for example, FC tape drives) will be disrupted by such
events.
