'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH i915 7d "24 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
i915 \- DRI-compliant kernel driver providing graphic hardware acceleration
support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B i915
driver is a Direct Rendering Infrastructure (DRI)- compliant
kernel driver that provides graphics hardware acceleration support. DRI is a
framework for coordinating OS kernel, 3D graphics hardware, X window system
and OpenGL applications.
.sp
.LP
The
.B i915
driver currently supports the Intel i845, i865, i915, i945,
i965 and G33 series integrated graphics controllers.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/i915
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit
.B ELF
kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/amd64/i915
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit
.B ELF
kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdrmr
_
Architecture x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/X11/share/man/man1/Xserver.1
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/X11/share/man/man1/Xorg.1
.sp
.LP
.B /usr/X11/share/man/man5/X11.5
