'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipnet 7D "8 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ipnet, lo0 \- ipnet device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/ipnet/*, /dev/lo0\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipnet
device driver creates, removes and manages nodes in the
.B /dev/ipnet/
namespace.
.sp
.LP
A node is created in
.B /dev/ipnet
for every IP interface on the system,
including interfaces that exist only in software and for which there is no
hardware device. The
.B ipnet
device also provides access to all IP
traffic to and from the system. To provide access to packets that are
internally looped-back in IP, the
.B ipnet
driver creates a
.B /dev/lo0
DLPI device.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.SS "ipnet and DLPI"
.sp
.LP
Device nodes created in
.B /dev/ipnet
are DLPI style-1 devices. All
.B M_PROTO
and
.BR M_PCPROTO "-type messages are interpreted as DLPI"
primitives. Because the device is read-only and packets can only be observed
by opening them, the following subset of DLPI primitives is supported:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
DL_INFO_REQ
DL_BIND_REQ
DL_UNBIND_REQ
DL_PROMISCON_REQ
DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ
DLIOCRAW
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the
.B DL_INFO_ACK
primitive in
response to the
.B DL_INFO_REQ
are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum
.B SDU
is
.BR INT_MAX
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum
.B SDU
is
.BR 0 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B DLSAP
address length is
.BR 2.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B MAC
type is
.BR DL_IPNET .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SAP
length value is
.BR 2 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Service mode is
.BR DL_CLDLS .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
No optional quality of service (QOS) support is provided. Accordingly, the
QOS fields are 0.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Provider style is
.BR DL_STYLE1 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Version is
.BR DL_VERSION_2 .
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.B /dev/ipnet/*
and
.B /dev/lo0
devices only accept
.B DL_BIND_REQ
requests for SAPs 4 (IPv4 packets), 6 (IPv6 packets), or 0
(all IP packets).
.B DL_BIND_REQ
requests for other SAP values result in
a
.B DL_ERROR_ACK
of
.BR DL_BADSAP .
.SS "ipnet primitives"
.sp
.LP
For
.B /dev/ipnet/*
devices, the
.B DL_PROMISCON_REQ
and
.B DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ
primitives with the
.B DL_PROMISC_PHYS
flag set
in the
.B dl_level
field enables/disables the reception of all packets.
When disabled, only packets with addresses matching any of the configured
addresses on the IP interface are received. When used with the
.B DL_PROMISC_MULTI
flag set, reception of all multicast group addresses
can be enabled/disabled.
.B DL_PROMISC_PHYS
and
.BR DL_PROMISC_MULTI
have no effect for
.BR /dev/lo0 .
When the
.B DL_PROMISC_SAP
flag is
set, reception of all IPv4/IPv6 can be enabled/disabled.
.sp
.LP
The
.B DLIOCRAW
ioctl is supported but has no effect on the data
returned from the device.
.sp
.LP
The
.B DL_IOC_IPNET_INFO
ioctl enables/disables the inclusion of a
.B dl_ipnetinfo_t
structure that is prepended to the IP header when
receiving packet data. When enabled, a non-zero integer is returned
reflecting the current
.B DL_IOC_IPNET_INFO
version. The
.B dl_ipnetinfo_t
data structure is defined in
.B <sys/dlpi.h>
and
includes the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint8_t  dli_version;  /* DL_IPNETINFO_* version */
uint8_t  dli_ipver;    /* packet IP header version */
uint16_t dli_len;      /* length of dl_ipnetinfo_t */
uint64_t dli_srczone;  /* packet source zone ID (if any) */
uint64_t dli_dstzone;  /* packet dest zone ID (if any) */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The current
.B dli_version
is 1. To robustly support future
.B dl_ipnetinfo_t
versions, consumers should check that
.B dli_version
is a value they recognize, and must use the
.B dli_len
field to advance
past the
.B dl_ipnetinfo_t
header.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/ipnet/*, /dev/lo0
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Special character devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/ipnet.conf
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Configuration file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWckr
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dlpi (7P)
