'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ipw 7D "11 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ipw \- Intel Pro. Wireless 802.11b IPW2100B driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipw
\fI802.11b\fR wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting the Data Link
Provider Interface,
.BR dlpi (7P),
on Intel Pro Wireless  2100B
chipset-based wireless NIC's. Driver  functions  include controller
initialization, wireless
.I 802.11b
infrastructure network connection,
WEP, frame transmit and receive and promiscuous support.
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ipw
driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11
Mbits/sec.
.sp
.LP
The \fBipw\fR driver supports only BSS networks (also known as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and the "open" ("open-system") or "shared system"
authentication. Only WEP encryption is currently supported. You perform
configuration and administration tasks using the
.BR dladm "(1M) and"
\fBwificonfig\fR(1M) utilities.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/ipw*
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/ipw
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/ipw
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityx86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
\fBwificonfig\fR(1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI/IEEE Std 802.11- Standard for Wireless LAN  Technology\fR \(em
1999
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11b - Standard  for  Wireless  LAN  Technology-Rev. B\fR  -
2003
