'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iser 7D "30 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
iser \- iSCSI Extensions for Remote DMA driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The iSER driver accelerates the iSCSI protocol by mapping the data transfer
phases to Remote DMA (RDMA) operations. No iSER configuration is required
for its use, but an RDMA-capable protocol (RCaP) must be configured and
enabled on both target and initiator endpoints.
.sp
.LP
Currently, InfiniBand RC is the supported RCaP, and for discovery IP over
IB must be configured on both the initiator and target. If Infiniband (IB)
hardware is present and an Infiniband reliable-connected (RC) connection can
be established then an iSER-enabled initiator uses iSER connections to
iSER-enabled targets. Otherwise the connection is established using IP-based
connectivity.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/iser
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/iser
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel drive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/iser
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
64-bit AMD64 ELF kernel driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/iser.conf
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWiscsidmr
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR iscsiadm (1M),
.BR itadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ibd (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I "System Administration Guide: Devices and File Systems
.sp
.LP
.I "RFC 3720 Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI)
.sp
.LP
.I "RFC 5046 iSCSI Extensions for RDM
