'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iwh 7D "26 Aug 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
iwh \- Intel(R) WiFi Link 5100/5300 Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iwh
.I 802.11a/g/n
wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting the Intel Shirley
Peak WiFi  chipset-based NIC's. Driver functions  include controller
initialization, wireless
.I 802.11
infrastructure network connection, WEP
and frame transmit and receive.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iwh
driver performs auto-negotiation  to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec.
Supported
.I 802.11g
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36,
48 and 54 Mbits/sec.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/iwh
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/iwh
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/iwh
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWiwh
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 - Wireless LAN Media  Access Control  and  Physical Layer
Specification\fR- IEEE, 2001.
