'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iwi 7D "11 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
iwi \- Intel Pro. Wireless 802.11a/b/g IPW2200B/G IPW2915A/B/G Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iwi
.I 802.11b/g
wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable,  GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting  the Data Link
Provider Interface,
.BR dlpi (7P),
on Intel Pro Wireless 2200BG 2915ABG
chipset-based wireless NIC's. Driver functions include controller
initialization, wireless
.I 802.11b
infrastructure network connection,
WEP and frame transmit and receive.
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B iwi
driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11
Mbits/sec. Supported
.I 802.11g
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12,
18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbits/sec.
.sp
.LP
The \fBiwi\fR driver supports only BSS networks (also known as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and "open"(or "open-system") or "shared system"
authentication. Only WEP encryption is currently supported. You perform
configuration and administration tasks using the
.BR dladm "(1M) and"
.BR wificonfig (1M)
utilities.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/iwi*
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/iwi
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/iwi
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityx86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
.I "ANSI/IEEE Std 802.11- Standard for Wireless LAN Technology
\(em
1999
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11a- Standard for Wireless LAN Technology-Rev. A\fR\(em
2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11b - Standard  for  Wireless  LAN Technology-Rev. B
\fR\(em 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11g- Standard for  Wireless  LAN Technology  -Rev.
G\fR\(em 2003
