'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mediator 7D "20 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
mediator \- support for HA configurations consisting of two strings of
drives
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Beginning with a prior version, Solaris Volume Manager provided support for
high-availability (HA) configurations consisting of two hosts that share at
least three strings of drives and that run software enabling exclusive
access to the data on those drives from one host. (Note:  Volume Manager, by
itself, does not actually provide a high-availability environment. The
diskset feature is an enabler for HA configurations.)
.sp
.LP
Volume Manager provides support for a low-end HA solution consisting of two
hosts that share only two strings of drives. The hosts in this type of
configuration, referred to as
.IR mediators ,
run a special daemon,
.BR rpc.metamedd (1M).
The mediator hosts take on additional
responsibilities to ensure that data is available in the case of host or
drive failures.
.sp
.LP
In a mediator configuration, two hosts are physically connected to two
strings of drives. This configuration can survive the failure of a single
host or a single string of drives, without administrative intervention. If
both a host and a string of drives fail (multiple failures), the integrity
of the data cannot be guaranteed. At this point, administrative intervention
is required to make the data accessible.
.sp
.LP
The following definitions pertain to a mediator configuration:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B diskset
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of drives containing metadevices and hot spares that can be shared
exclusively (but not concurrently) by two hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B "Volume Manager" state database
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A replicated database that stores metadevice configuration and state
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mediator host
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A host that runs the
.B rpc.metamedd(1M)
daemon and that has been added
to a diskset. The mediator host participates in checking the state database
and the mediator quorum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mediator quorum
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The condition achieved when the number of accessible mediator hosts is
equal to half+1 the total number of configured mediator hosts. Because it is
expected that there will be two mediator hosts, this number will normally be
2 ([(2/2) + 1] = 2.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B replica
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A single copy of the Volume Manager metadevice state database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B replica quorum
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The condition achieved when the number of accessible replicas is equal to
half+1 the total number of configured replicas. For example, if a system is
configured with ten replicas, the quorum is met when six are accessible
([(10/2) + 1 = 6]).
.RE

.sp
.LP
A mediator host running the
.B rpc.metamedd(1M)
daemon keeps track of
replica updates. As long as the following conditions are met, access to data
occurs without any administrative intervention:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The replica quorum is not met.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Half of the replicas are still accessible.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The mediator quorum is met.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The following conditions describe the operation of mediator hosts:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
If the  is met, access to the diskset is granted. At this point no mediator
host is involved.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
If the replica quorum is not met, half of the replicas are accessible, the
mediator quorum is met, and the replica and mediator data match, access to
the diskset is granted. The mediator host contributes the deciding vote.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
If the replica quorum is not met, half of the replicas are accessible, the
mediator quorum is not met, half of the mediator hosts  is accessible, and
the replica and mediator data match, the system prompts you to grant or deny
access to the diskset.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
If the replica quorum is not met, half of the replicas are accessible, the
mediator quorum is met, and the replica and mediator data do not match,
access to the diskset is read-only. You can delete replicas, release the
diskset, and retake the diskset to gain read-write access to the data in the
diskset.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
In all other cases, the diskset access is read-only. You can delete
replicas, release the diskset, and retake the diskset to gain read-write
access to the data in the diskset.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The
.BR metaset "(1M) command administers disksets and mediator hosts. The"
following options to the
.B metaset
command pertain only to administering
mediator hosts.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -a -m
.I mediator_host_list
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Adds mediator hosts to the named set.  A
.I mediator_host_list
is the
nodename of the mediator host to be added and up to 2 other aliases for the
mediator host. The nodename and aliases for each mediator host are separated
by commas. Up to 3 mediator hosts can be specified for the named diskset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -d -m
.I mediator_host_list
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Deletes mediator hosts from the named diskset. Mediator hosts are deleted
from the diskset by specifying the nodename of mediator host to delete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -q
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Displays an enumerated list of tags pertaining to ``tagged data'' that may
be encountered during a take of the ownership of a diskset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
[\fB-f\fR] \fB-y\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Takes ownership of a diskset safely, unless
.B -f
is used, in which case
the take is unconditional. If
.B metaset
finds that another host owns the
set, this host will not be allowed to take ownership of the set. If the set
is not owned by any other host, all the disks  within the set will be owned
by the host on which
.B metaset
was executed. The metadevice state
database is read in and the shared metadevices contained in the set become
accessible. The
.B -t
option will take a diskset that has stale
databases. When the databases are stale,
.B metaset
will exit with code
66, and a message will be printed. At that point, the only operations
permitted are the addition and deletion of replicas. Once the addition or
deletion of the replicas has been completed, the diskset should be released
and retaken to gain full access to the data. If mediator hosts have been
configured, some additional exit codes are  possible. If half of the
replicas and half of the mediator hosts are operating properly, the take
will exit with code 3. At this point, you can add or delete replicas, or use
the
.B -y
option on a subsequent take. If the take operation encounters
``tagged data,'' the take operation will exit with code 2. You can then run
the
.B metaset
command with the
.B -q
option to see an enumerated
list of tags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B -t
[\fB-f\fR] \fB-u\fR \fItagnumber\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
.RB "Once a tag has been selected, a subsequent take with " " -u"
.I tagnumber
can be executed to select the data associated with the
given
.IR tagnumber .
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR metaset (1M),
.BR md (7D),
.BR rpc.metamedd (1M),
.BR rpc.metad (1M)
.sp
.LP
Sun Cluster documentation, \fISolaris Volume Manager Administration
Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Diskset administration, including the addition and deletion of hosts and
drives, requires all hosts in the set to be accessible from the network.
