'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH null 7D "4 April 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
null \- the null file, also called the null device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/null\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Data written on the null special file,
.BR /dev/null ,
is discarded.
.sp
.LP
Reads from a null special file always return 0 bytes.
.sp
.LP
Mapping a null special file creates an address reservation of a length
equal to the length of the mapping, and rounded up to the nearest page size
as returned by
.BR sysconf (3C).
No resources are consumed by the
reservation. Mappings can be placed in the resulting address range via
subsequent calls to
.B mmap
with the
.B -MAP_FIXED
option set.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/null
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mmap (2),
.BR sysconf (3C)
