'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pcan 7D "24 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
pcan \- Cisco Aironet 802.11b wireless NIC driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pcan
wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded, loadable, clonable,
GLDv3-based STREAMS driver. It supports the pccard and PCI/MiniPCI cards
with the Cisco Aironet
.I 802.11b
chipset. For pccard, the driver works
in both SPARC and x86 (32-bit/64-bit) modes. For PCI/MiniPCI card, the
driver works in 32-bit x86 mode only.
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pcan
driver supports
.I 802.11b
data rates of 1, 2, 5.5 and 11
(Mbits/sec). The default is 11.
.sp
.LP
The
.B
pcan
driver supports BSS networks (also known as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and IBSS networks (also known as "ad-hoc"
networks). For authentication type, the
.B pcan
driver supports the
"open" (or "open-system") mode. For encryption type, only WEP is currently
supported. You perform configuration and administration tasks using the
.BR dladm (1M)
and
.BR wificonfig "(1M) utilities."
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/pcan*
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/pcan
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/pcan
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/pcan
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module (SPARC).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I "802.11b Standard for Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs)
- IEEE
