'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rge 7D "21 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
rge \- Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet Network Adapter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/dev/rge
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rge
Gigabit/Fast Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded,  loadable,
clonable, GLD-based  STREAMS  driver supporting  the Data Link Provider
Interface,
.BR dlpi (7P),
on  the Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet Network
Adapter.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rge
driver functions includes controller initialization, frame
transmit and receive, promiscuous and multicast support, and error recovery
and reporting.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The cloning,  character-special device
.B /dev/rge
is  used to access
all Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet devices installed within the system.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rge
driver is managed by the
.BR dladm "(1M) command line"
utility, which allows VLANs to be defined on top of
.B rge
instances and
for
.B rge
instances to be aggregated. See \fBdladm\fR(1M) for more
details.
.sp
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the DL_INFO_ACK primitive in response
to the DL_INFO_REQ are as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU (with jumbo frame) is
.BR 7000 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is
.BR 0 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBDSLAP\fR address length is \fB8\fR bytes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBMAC\fR type is \fBDL_ETHER.\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSAP\fR length value is  -2, meaning the physical address component is
followed immediately by a 2-byte sap component within the DLSAP address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address value is Ethernet/IEEE  broadcast address
(FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF).
.RE
.sp
.LP
Once in the DL_ATTACHED state, you must send a DL_BIND_REQ to associate a
particular Service Access Point (SAP) with the stream.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
By default, the
.B rge
driver performs auto-negotiation to select the
link speed and mode. Link speed and mode can be any one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
1000 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.sp
.LP
.RB "Alternatively, you can set the capabilities advertised by the" " rge"
device using \fBndd\fR(1M). The driver supports a number of parameters whose
names begin with
.BR adv_ .
Each of these parameters contains a boolean
value that determines if the device advertises that mode of operation. The
\fIadv_pause_cap\fR indicates if half/full duplex pause is advertised to
link partner. You can set
.I adv_asym_pause_cap
to advertise to the link
partner that asymmetric pause is desired.
.sp
.LP
For example, to prevent the device 'rge2' from advertising gigabit
capabilities, enter (as super-user):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -set /dev/rge2 adv_1000fdx_cap 0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All capabilities default to enabled. Note that changing any capability
parameter causes the link to go down while the link partners renegotiate the
link speed/duplex using the newly changed capabilities.
.sp
.LP
You can find the current parameter settings by using
.BR "ndd -get" .
In addition, the driver exports the current state, speed, duplex setting,
and working mode of the link via
.B ndd
parameters (these are read only
and may not be changed). For example, to check link state of device
.BR rge0 :
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_status
1
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_speed
100
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_duplex
2
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The output above indicates that the link is up and running at 100Mbps
full-duplex. In addition, the driver exports its working mode by
.IR loop_mode .
If it is set to 0, the loopback mode is disabled.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/rge*
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Character special device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/rge
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
32-bit x86
.B rge
driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/rge
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
64-bit x86
.B rge
driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/rge
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
SPARC
.B rge
driver binary.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.sp
.LP
\fINetwork Interfaces Programmer's Guide\fR
