'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rtw 7D "12 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
rtw \- RealTek 8180L 802.11b Wireless NIC driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rtw
.I 802.11b
wireless NIC driver is a  multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based  STREAMS driver supporting RealTek 8180L
chipset-based NIC's.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rtw
driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec.
The default is 11.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrtw\fR driver supports only BSS  networks  (also  known as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and "open"(or "open-system") or "shared system"
authentication.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/rtw*
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/rtw
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/rtw
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWrtw
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 - Wireless LAN  Media  Access  Control  and  Physical Layer
Specification\fR \(em IEEE, 2001
