'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sdt 7D "4 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
sdt \- DTrace statically defined tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sdt
driver is a DTrace dynamic tracing provider that performs
dynamic instrumentation at statically-defined locations in the Solaris
kernel.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sdt
provider allows kernel developers to explicitly create probes
at formally designated locations in the operating system kernel and loadable
modules, allowing the implementor to consciously choose the points in their
code that are desired probe points, and to convey some semantic knowledge
about that point with the choice of probe name and a relevant set of
arguments.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sdt
driver is not a public interface and you access
instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
for a description of the public
documented interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes
offered by the
.B sdt
provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdtrp
_
Interface Stability Private
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dtrace (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
