'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sfe 7D "12 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
sfe \- SiS900 series Fast Ethernet device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/sfe\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sfe
driver is a loadable, clonable, GLD-based  STREAMS driver
supporting the Data Link Provider Interface
.BR dlpi "(7P) on Silicon"
Integrated Systems 900 series Fast Ethernet controllers.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The relevant fields returned as part of a
.B DL_INFO_ACK
response are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU is 1500.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is 0.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The dlsap address length is 8.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
MAC type is
.BR DL_ETHER .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
SAP length is -2. The 6-byte physical address is followed immediately by a
2-byte SAP.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Service mode is
.BR DL_CLDLS .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address is the 6-byte Ethernet broadcast address
(\fBff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff\fR).
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the SAP provided is zero, then
.I "IEEE 802.3"
mode is assumed and
outbound frames will have the frame payload length written into the type
field. Likewise, inbound frames with a SAP between zero and 1500 are
interpreted as
.I "IEEE 802.3"
frames and delivered to any streams that are
bound to SAP zero (the
.I 802.3
SAP).
.SH PROPERTIES
.sp
.LP
The following properties  may  be  configured  using either
.BR ndd (1M)
or the
.B sfe.conf
configuration file as described by
.BR driver.conf (4):
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adv_100fdx_cap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 100 Base TX full-duplex link option. (This is generally the
fastest mode if both link partners support it. Most modern equipment
supports this mode.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adv_100hdx_cap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 100 Base TX half-duplex link option. (Typically used when the
link partner is a 100 Mbps hub.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adv_10fdx_cap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 10 Base-T full-duplex link option.  (This less-frequently used
mode is typically used when the link partner is a 10 Mbps switch.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B adv_10hdx_cap
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 10 Base-T half-duplex link option.  (This is the fall-back when
no other option is available.  It is typically used when the link partner is
a 10 Mbps hub or is an older network card.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySPARC, x86
_
Interface Stability Committed
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/sfe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sfe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit driver binary (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/sfe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit driver binary (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sparcv9/sfe
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit driver binary (SPARC).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/sfe.conf
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ndd (1M),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
.I IEEE 802.3
\(em Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
2002
