'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH systrace 7D "4 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
systrace \- DTrace system call tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B systrace
driver implements the DTrace
.B syscall
dynamic
tracing provider. The syscall provider performs dynamic instrumentation to
offer probes that fire whenever a thread enters or returns from a kernel
system call entry point.
.sp
.LP
The
.B systrace
driver is not a public interface and you access the
instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
for a description of the public
documented interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes
offered by the
.B syscall
provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdtrp
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dtrace (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dtrace (7D)
.sp
.LP
.I Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
