'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH urtw 7D "20 Aug 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
urtw \- RealTek RTL8187L/RTL8187B USB 802.11b/g Wireless Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B urtw
802.11b/g wireless driver is a multi-threaded, loadable,
clonable, GLDv3-basedSTREAMS driver supporting the RealTek RTL8187L
chipset-based wireless devices.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The
.B urtw
driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate and
mode. Supported 802.11b data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec. Supported
802.11g data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12, 8, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbits/sec.
The
.B atu
driver supports only BSS networks (also known
.RB as ap
or
.B infrastructure
networks) and
.B open
(or
.BR open-system )
or
.B shared system
authentication.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/urtw*
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/urtw
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
32-bit ELF kernel module. (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/urtw
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
64-bit ELF kernel module. (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWurtw
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 \(em Wireless LAN Media Access Control and Physical Layer
Specification, IEEE, 2001\fR
