'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Damien Bergamini
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the uthor nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.TH wpi 7D "23 Apr 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
wpi \- Intel Pro Wireless 802.11a/b/g 3945 driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wpi
.I 802.11b/g
wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting the Intel Pro
Wireless 3945ABG chipset-based NIC's.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wpi
driver performs auto-negotiation  to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec.
Supported
.I 802.11g
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36,
48 and 54 Mbits/sec.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/wpi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/wpi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit
.B ELF
kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/wpi
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit
.B ELF
kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
AvailabilitySUNWwpi
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 \(em Wireless LAN Media Access Control and Physical Layer
Specification\fR \(em IEEE, 2001
