'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH xge 7D "3 Oct 2005" " SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
xge \- Neterion Xframe 10Gigabit Ethernet Network Adapter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/dev/xge
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B xge
10 Gigabit Ethernet  driver is a multi-threaded, loadable,
clonable, GLD-based STREAMS driver supporting  the Data Link Provider
Interface,
.BR dlpi (7P),
on S2IO Xframe 10-Gigabit Ethernet Network
Adapter.
.sp
.LP
The
.B xge
driver functions includes controller initialization, frame
transmit and receive, promiscuous and multicast support, TCP and UDP
checksum offload (IPv4 and IPv6), 9622-byte jumbo frame, and error recovery
and reporting.
.sp
.LP
The
.B xge
driver and hardware support the 10GBase-SR/W, LR/W, and ER/W
.I 802.3
physical layer.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The cloning,  character-special device
.B /dev/xge
is used to access all
Xframe devices installed within the system.
.sp
.LP
The
.B xge
driver is managed by the
.BR dladm "(1M) command line"
utility, which allows VLANs to be defined on top of xge  instances and for
.B xge
instances to be aggregated. See
.BR dladm (1M)
for more
details.
.sp
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the DL_INFO_ACK primitive in response
to the DL_INFO_REQ are as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU is
.BR 9600 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is
.BR 0 .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B DSLAP
address length is
.B 8
bytes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B MAC
type is
.BR DL_ETHER.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SAP
length value is  -2 meaning the physical address component is
followed immediately by a 2-byte sap component within the DLSAP address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address value is Ethernet/IEEE  broadcast address
(FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF).
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
By default, the
.B xge
driver works without any configuration file.
.sp
.LP
You can check the running-time status of a device  instance using
.BR ndd (1M).
Currently, the driver provides an interface to print all
hardware statistics.
.sp
.LP
For example, to print statistics of device xge0:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     #ndd /dev/xge0 stats
     tmac_data_octets 772
     tmac_frms 15
     tmac_drop_frms 0
     tmac_bcst_frms 6
     tmac_mcst_frms 6

     ...

     rmac_vld_frms 13
     rmac_fcs_err_frms 0
     rmac_drop_frms 0
     rmac_vld_bcst_frms 7
     rmac_vld_mcst_frms 11
     rmac_out_rng_len_err_frms 0
     rmac_in_rng_len_err_frms 0
     rmac_long_frms 0

     ...

     not_traffic_intr_cnt 242673
     traffic_intr_cnt 28

     ...
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/xge
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.B xge
special character device
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
Architecturex86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR ndd (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.sp
.LP
.I Network Interfaces Programmer's Guide
