'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH zyd 7D "10 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
zyd \- ZyDAS ZD1211/ZD1211B USB 802.11b/g Wireless Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zyd
.I 802.11b/g
wireless driver is  a multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable,  GLDv3-based  STREAMS driver supporting the ZyDAS
ZD1211/ZD1211B USB chipset-based wireless devices.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The
.B zyd
driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate
and mode. Supported
.I 802.11b
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec.
Supported
.I 802.11g
data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36,
48 and 54 Mbits/sec. The
.B zyd
driver supports only BSS networks (also
known as "ap" or "infrastructure"  networks) and open (or "open-system"),
shared key and WPA/WPA2 authentication. Supported encryption types are
WEP40, WEP104, TKIP and AES-CCMP.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /dev/zyd*
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/zyd
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
32-bit kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /kernel/drv/amd64/zyd
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
64-bit kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(0i) |cw(5.5i)
lw(0i) |lw(5.5i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
Availability SUNWzyd
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR wificonfig (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 - Wireless LAN  Media  Access Control and  Physical Layer
Specification\fR - IEEE, 2001
