'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cldap_open 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
cldap_open \- LDAP connectionless communication preparation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBLDAP *\fBcldap_open\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*host\fR, \fBint\fR \fIport\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I host
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The name of the host on which the LDAP server is running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I port
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The port number to connect.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cldap_open()
function is called to prepare for connectionless LDAP
communication (over
.BR udp (7P)).
It allocates an LDAP structure which is
passed to future search requests.
.sp
.LP
If the default IANA-assigned port of 389 is desired,
.B LDAP_PORT
should be
specified for
.IR port .
.I host
can contain a space-separated list of hosts
or addresses to try.
.B cldap_open()
returns a pointer to an LDAP structure,
which should be passed to subsequent calls to
.BR cldap_search_s (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_setretryinfo (3LDAP),
and
.BR cldap_close (3LDAP).
Certain fields in
the LDAP structure can be set to indicate size limit, time limit, and how
aliases are handled during operations.  See
.BR ldap_open (3LDAP)
and
.B <ldap.h>
for more details.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs,
.B cldap_open()
will return
.I NULL
and
.BR errno
will be set appropriately.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP)
.BR cldap_search_s (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_setretryinfo (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_close (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR udp (7P)
