'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cldap_setretryinfo 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
cldap_setretryinfo \- set connectionless LDAP request retransmission
parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBcldap_setretryinfo\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBint\fR \fItries\fR, \fBint\fR \fItimeout\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ld
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
LDAP pointer returned from a previous call to
.BR cldap_open (3LDAP).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tries
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Maximum number of times to send a request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I timeout
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Initial time, in seconds, to wait  before re-sending a request.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B cldap_setretryinfo()
function is used to set the CLDAP request
retransmission behavior for future
.BR cldap_search_s "(3LDAP) calls. The"
default values (set by
.BR cldap_open (3LDAP))
are 4 tries and 3 seconds
between tries.  See \fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP) for a complete description
of the retransmission algorithm used.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_open (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_search_s (3LDAP),
.BR cldap_close (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
