'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_ufn 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_ufn, ldap_ufn_search_s, ldap_ufn_search_c, ldap_ufn_search_ct,
ldap_ufn_setfilter, ldap_ufn_setprefix, ldap_ufn_timeout \- LDAP user
friendly search functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_ufn_search_c\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*ufn\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**attrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIattrsonly\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI**res\fR, \fBint (\fI*cancelproc\fR)(),
     \fBvoid\fR \fI*cancelparm\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_ufn_search_ct\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*ufn\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**attrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIattrsonly\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI**res\fR,\fBint (\fI*cancelproc\fR)(),
     \fBvoid\fR \fI*cancelparm\fR,\fBchar\fR \fI*tag1\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*tag2\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fI*tag3\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_ufn_search_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*ufn\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**attrs\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIattrsonly\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI**res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPFiltDesc *\fBldap_ufn_setfilter\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*fname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_ufn_setprefix\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*prefix\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_ufn_timeout\fR(\fBvoid\fR \fI*tvparam\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are used to perform LDAP user friendly search operations.
.B ldap_ufn_search_s()
is the simplest form.  It does the search
synchronously. It takes
.I ld
to identify the the LDAP connection. The
.I ufn
parameter is the user friendly name for which to search. The
.IR attrs ,
.I attrsonly
and
.I res
parameters are the same as for
.BR ldap_search (3LDAP).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_search_c()
function functions the same as
.BR ldap_ufn_search_s() ,
except that it takes
.IR cancelproc ,
a function
to call periodicly during the search.  It should be a function taking a
single void * argument, given by
.IR calcelparm .
If
.IR cancelproc
returns a non-zero result, the search will be abandoned and no results
returned. The purpose of this function is to provide a way for the search to
be cancelled, for example, by a user or because some other condition
occurs.
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_ufn_search_ct()\fR function is like \fBldap_ufn_search_c()\fR,
except that it takes three extra parameters.
.I tag1
is passed to the
.BR ldap_init_getfilter (3LDAP)
function when resolving the first component
of the UFN.
.I tag2
is used when resolving intermediate components.
.I tag3
is used when resolving the last component. By default, the tags
used by the other UFN search functions during these three phases of the
search are "ufn first", "ufn intermediate", and "ufn last".
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_setfilter()
function is used to set the
.BR ldapfilter.conf (4)
file for use with the
.BR ldap_init_getfilter (3LDAP)
function to \fIfname\fR.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_setprefix()
function is used to set the default prefix
(actually, it's a suffix) appended to UFNs before searhing.  UFNs with fewer
than three components have the prefix appended first, before searching.  If
that fails, the UFN is tried with progressively shorter versions of the
prefix, stripping off components.  If the UFN has three or more components,
it is tried by itself first.  If that fails, a similar process is applied
with the prefix appended.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_timeout()
function is used to set the timeout associated
with
.B ldap_ufn_search_s()
searches.  The
.I timeout
parameter should
actually be a pointer to a struct timeval. This is so
.B ldap_ufn_timeout()
can be used as a cancelproc in the above
functions.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gettimeofday (3C),
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_search (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_getfilter (3LDAP),
.BR ldapfilter.conf (4),
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
These functions may allocates memory.  Return values are contained in
<\fBldap.h\fR>.
