'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_first_attribute 3LDAP "16 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_first_attribute, ldap_next_attribute \- step through LDAP entry
attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBchar *\fBldap_first_attribute\fR(\fBLDAP *\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fIentry\fR,
     \fBBerElement **\fIberptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBldap_next_attribute\fR(\fBLDAP *\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fIentry\fR,
     \fBBerElement *\fIber\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
function gets the value of the first
attribute in an entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
function returns the name of the first
attribute in the entry. To get the value of the first attribute, pass the
attribute name to the
.B ldap_get_values()
function or to the
.B ldap_get_values_len()
function.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_next_attribute()
function gets the value of the next
attribute in an entry.
.sp
.LP
After stepping through the attributes, the application should call
.B ber_free()
to free the
.B BerElement
structure allocated by the
.B ldap_first_attribute()
function if the structure is other than NULL.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs,
.I NULL
is returned and the
.B ld_errno
field in
the
.I ld
parameter is set to indicate the error. See
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP)
for a description of possible error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSUNWcsl (32-bit)SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_first_entry (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_values (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
function alllocates memory that might need
to be freed by the caller by means of \fBber_free\fR(3LDAP).
