'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_charset 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_charset, ldap_set_string_translators, ldap_t61_to_8859,
ldap_8859_to_t61, ldap_translate_from_t61, ldap_translate_to_t61,
ldap_enable_translation \- LDAP character set translation functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_set_string_translators\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR,
     \fBBERTranslateProc\fR \fIencode_proc\fR, \fBBERTranslateProc\fR \fIdecodeproc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtypedef\fR \fBint\fR(\fB*BERTranslateProc)(char\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_t61_to_8859\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_8859_to_t61\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_translate_from_t61\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*lenp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_translate_to_t61\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*lenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_enable_translation\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR, \fBint\fR \fIenable\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are used to used to enable translation  of character
strings used in the LDAP library to and from  the T.61 character set used in
the LDAP protocol.  These  functions are only available if the LDAP and LBER
libraries are compiled with
.B STR_TRANSLATION
defined. It is also
possible to turn on character translation by default so that all LDAP
library callers will experience translation; see the LDAP Make-common source
file for details.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_set_string_translators()
sets the translation functions that
will be used by the LDAP library.  They are not actually used until the
.I ld_lberoptions
field of the LDAP structure is set to include the
.B LBER_TRANSLATE_STRINGS
option.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_t61_to_8859()
and
.B ldap_8859_to_t61()
are translation
functions for converting between T.61 characters and ISO-8859 characters.
The specific 8859 character set used is determined at compile time.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_translate_from_t61()
is used to translate a string of characters
from the T.61 character set to a different character set.  The actual
translation is done using the
.I decode_proc
that was passed to a
previous call to
.BR ldap_set_string_translators() .
On entry,
.I *bufp
should point to the start of the T.61 characters to be translated and
.I *lenp
should contain the number of bytes to translate.  If
.I free_input
is non-zero, the input buffer will be freed if translation
is a success.  If the translation is a success,
.B LDAP_SUCCESS
will be
returned,
.I *bufp
will point to a newly malloc'd buffer that contains
the translated characters, and
.I *lenp
will contain the length of the
result. If translation fails, an LDAP error code will be returned.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_translate_to_t61()
is used to translate a string of characters
to the T.61 character set from a different character set.  The actual
translation is done using the
.I encode_proc
that was passed to a
previous call to
.BR ldap_set_string_translators() .
This function is
called just like
.BR ldap_translate_from_t61() .
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_enable_translation()
is used to turn on or off string
translation for the LDAP entry
.I entry
(typically obtained by calling
.B ldap_first_entry()
or
.B ldap_next_entry()
after a successful LDAP
search operation). If
.B enable
is zero, translation is disabled; if
non-zero, translation is enabled.  This function is useful if you need to
ensure that a particular attribute is not translated when it is extracted
using
.B ldap_get_values()
or
.BR ldap_get_values_len() .
For example,
you would not want to translate a binary attributes such as
.BR jpegPhoto .

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
