'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_modrdn 3LDAP "22 Octo 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_modrdn, ldap_modrdn_s, ldap_modrdn2, ldap_modrdn2_s, ldap_rename,
ldap_rename_s \- modify LDAP entry RDN
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|.\fB-l\fR ldap [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_modrdn\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_modrdn_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIdeleteoldrdn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_modrdn2\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIdeleteoldrdn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_modrdn2_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR,
     \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR, \fBint\fR \fIdeleteoldrdn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_rename\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR,
     \fBconst char\fR \fI*newparent\fR, \fBint\fR \fIdeleteoldrdn\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**serverctrls\fR, \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**clientctrls\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fI*msgidp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_rename_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBconst char\fR \fI*newrdn\fR,
     \fBconst char\fR \fI*newparent\fR,\ \fBconst int\fR \fIdeleteoldrdn\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**serverctrls\fR,\fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**clientctrls\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_modrdn()
and
.B ldap_modrdn_s()
functions perform an LDAP
modify RDN (Relative Distinguished Name) operation.  They both take
.IR dn ,
the DN (Distinguished Name) of the entry whose RDN is to be
changed, and
.IR newrdn ,
the new RDN, to give the entry. The old RDN of
the entry is never kept as an attribute of the entry.
.B ldap_modrdn()
is
asynchronous. It return the message id of the operation it initiates.
.B ldap_modrdn_s()
is synchronous. It returns the LDAP error code that
indicates the success or failure of the operation.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_modrdn2()
and
.B ldap_modrdn2_s()
functions also perform
an LDAP modify RDN operation. They take the same parameters as above.  In
addition, they both take the
.I deleteoldrdn
parameter ,which is used as
a boolean value to indicate whether or not the old RDN values should be
deleted from the entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR ldap_rename() ,
.B ldap_rename_s()
routines are used to change
the name, that is, the RDN of an entry. These routines deprecate the
.B ldap_modrdn()
and
.B ldap_modrdn_s()
routines, as well as
.B ldap_modrdn2()
and
.BR ldap_modrdn2_s() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_rename()
and
.B ldap_rename_s()
functions both support
LDAPv3 server controls and client controls.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The synchronous (\fB_s\fR) versions of these functions return an LDAP error
code, either
.B LDAP_SUCCESS
or an error. See
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP).

.sp
.LP
The asynchronous versions return  \fB\(mi1\fR in the event of an error,
setting the
.B ld_errno
field of
.IR ld .
See
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP)
for more details. Use
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP)
to determine a particular
unsuccessful result.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes of
the
.BR ldap_modrdn() ,
.BR ldap_modrdn_s() ,
.B ldap_modrdn2()
and
.B ldap_modrdn2_s()
functions:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_rename()
and
.B ldap_rename_s()
functions have the
following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP)
,
.BR attributes (5)
