'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_version 3LDAP "19 Oct 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_version \- get version information about the LDAP SDK for C
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-flag \&.\|.\|.\fR  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|.\fB-l\fRldap [\fB -library \&.\|.\|. \fR]
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_version\fR(\fBLDAPVERSION\fR *\fIver\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A call to this function returns the version information for the LDAP SDK
for C.  This is a deprecated function. Use
.BR ldap_get_option (3LDAP)
instead. The version information is returned in the \fBLDAPVersion\fR
structure pointed to by
.IR ver .
If
.I NULL
is passed for
.IR ver ,
then only the  SDK version will be returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_version()
function returns the version number of the LDAP
SDK for C, multiplied by 100. For example, for version 1.0 of the LDAP SDK
for C, the function returns
.BR 100 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap_get_option (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
