'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_memfree 3LDAP "6 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_memfree \- free memory allocated by LDAP API functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc \fB-flag \&.\|.\|.\fR  \fIfile \fR\&.\|.\|.\fB-l\fRldap [\fB -library \&.\|.\|. \fR]
#include < lber.h>
#include < ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_memfree\fR(\fBvoid *\fIp\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_memfree()
function frees the memory allocated by certain
LDAP API functions that do not have corresponding functions to free memory.
These functions include
.BR ldap_get_dn (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3LDAP),
and
.BR ldap_next_attribute (3LDAP).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_memfree()
function takes one parameter,
.IR p ,
which is a
pointer to the memory to be freed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I p
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
A pointer to the memory to be freed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
There are no return values for the
.B ldap_memfree()
function.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined for the
.B ldap_memfree()
function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_dn (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_next_attribute (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
