'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_abandon 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon \- abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_abandon\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsgid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_abandon()
function is used to abandon or cancel an LDAP
operation in progress.  The
.I msgid
passed should be the message id of
an outstanding LDAP operation, as returned by
.BR ldap_search (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_modify (3LDAP),
etc.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_abandon\fR(\|) checks to see if the result of the operation has
already come in.  If it has, it deletes it from the queue of pending
messages. If not, it sends an LDAP abandon operation to the the LDAP
server.
.sp
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation will not be
returned from a future call to
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_abandon()
returns
.B 0
if successful or
.BR \(mi1 otherwise
and setting
.I ld_errno
appropriately. See
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP)
for
details.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
