'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_first_entry 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_first_entry, ldap_next_entry, ldap_count_entries, ldap_count_references,
ldap_first_reference, ldap_next_reference \- LDAP entry parsing and counting
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_first_entry\fR(\fBLDAP\fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*result\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_next_entry\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBldap_count_entries\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*result\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_first_reference\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_next_reference\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_count_references\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are used to parse results received from
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP)
or the synchronous LDAP search operation functions
.BR ldap_search_s (3LDAP)
and
.BR ldap_search_st (3LDAP).
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_entry()
function is used to retrieve the first entry in a
chain of search results.  It takes the
.I result
as returned by a call to
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP)
or
.BR ldap_search_s "(3LDAP) or"
.BR ldap_search_st (3LDAP)
and returns a pointer to the first entry in the
result.
.sp
.LP
This pointer should be supplied on a subsequent call to
.B ldap_next_entry()
to get the next entry, the result of which should be
supplied to the next call to
.BR ldap_next_entry() ,
etc.
.B ldap_next_entry()
will return
.I NULL
when there are no more entries.
The entries returned from these calls are used in calls to the functions
described in \fBldap_get_dn\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_values (3LDAP),
etc.
.sp
.LP
A count of the number of entries in the search result can be obtained by
calling
.BR ldap_count_entries() .
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_first_reference()
and
.B ldap_next_reference()
are used to
step through and retrieve the list of continuation references from a search
result chain.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_count_references()
function is used to count the number of
references that are contained in and remain in a search result chain.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs in
.B ldap_first_entry()
or
.BR ldap_next_entry() ,
.I NULL
is returned and the
.B ld_errno
field in the
.I ld
parameter
is set to indicate the error.  If an error occurs in
.BR ldap_count_entries() ,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned, and \fBld_errno\fR is set
appropriately. See \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP) for a description of possible error
codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_search (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_values (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_dn (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
