'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_get_lang_values 3LDAP "25 Oct 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_get_lang_values, ldap_get_lang_values_len \- return an attribute's  values
that matches a specified language subtype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-flag \&.\|.\|.\fR \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|.\fB-l\fRldap [\fB -library \&.\|.\|. \fR]
#include <ldap.h>

\fBchar **\fBldap_get_lang_values\fR(\fBLDAP *\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fIentry\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fItarget\fR,\ \fBchar **\fItype\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct berval **\fBldap_get_lang_values_len\fR(\fBLDAP *\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fIentry\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fItarget\fR, \fBchar **\fItype\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_get_lang_values()
function returns an array of an attribute's
string values that matches a specified language subtype. To retrieve the binary
data from an attribute, call the
.B ldap_get_lang_values_len()
function
instead.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_get_lang_values()
should be called to retrieve a null-terminated
array of an attribute's string values that match a specified language subtype.
The
.I entry
parameter is the entry retrieved from the directory.   The
.I target
parameter should contain the attribute type the values that are
required, including the optional language subtype. The
.I type
parameter
points to a buffer that returns the attribute type retrieved by  this function.
Unlike the
.B ldap_get_values()
function, if a language subtype is specified,
this function first attempts to find and return      values that match that
subtype, for example,
.BR cn;lang-en .
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_get_lang_values_len()
returns a null-terminated array of pointers  to
.B berval
structures, each containing the length and pointer to a binary
value of an attribute for a given entry. The
.I entry
parameter is the result
returned by
.B ldap_result()
or
.B ldap_search_s()
functions. The
.I target
parameter is the attribute returned by the call to
.B ldap_first_attribute()
or
.BR ldap_next_attribute() ,
or the attribute as
a literal string, such as
.B jpegPhoto
or
.BR audio .
.sp
.LP
These functions are deprecated. Use
.B ldap_get_values()
or
.B ldap_get_values_len()
instead.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful,
.B ldap_get_lang_values()
returns a null-terminated array of
the attribute's values. If the call is unsuccessful, or if no such attribute
exists in the
.IR entry ,
it returns a
.I NULL
and sets the appropriate error
code in the LDAP structure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldap_get_lang_values_len()
function returns a null-terminated array
of pointers to
.B berval
structures, which in turn, if successful, contain
pointers to the  attribute's binary values. If the call is unsuccessful, or if no
such attribute exists in the
.IR entry ,
it returns a
.I NULL
and sets the
appropriate error code in the LDAP structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_get_values (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_search (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
