'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldap_first_message 3LDAP "27 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_first_message, ldap_count_messages, ldap_next_message, ldap_msgtype \-
LDAP message processing functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_count_messages\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_first_message\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fBldap_next_message\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_msgtype\fR(\fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_count_messages()
is used to count the number of messages that
remain in a chain of results if called with a  message, entry, or reference
returned by
.BR ldap_first_message() ,
.BR ldap_next_message() ,
.BR ldap_first_entry() ,
.BR ldap_next_entry() ,
.BR ldap_first_reference() ,
and
.B ldap_next_reference()
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_first_message()
and
.B ldap_next_message()
functions are
used to step through the list of messages in a result chain returned by
.BR ldap_result() .
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_msgtype()
function returns the type of an LDAP message.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_first_message()
and
.B ldap_next_message()
return
.B LDAPMessage
which can include referral messages, entry messages and
result messages.
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_count_messages()
returns the number of messages contained in a
chain of results.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B ldap_first_message()
and
.B ldap_next_message()
return
.I NULL
when no more messages exist.
.I NULL
is also returned if an
error occurs while  stepping through the entries, in which case the error
parameters in the session handle
.I ld
will be set to indicate the
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap_error (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_result (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
