'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fex_merge_flags 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fex_merge_flags \- manage the floating point environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <fenv.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBfex_merge_flags\fR(\fBconst fenv_t *\fIenvp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fex_merge_flags()
function copies into the current environment
those exception flags that are set in the environment represented by the
object pointed to by
.IR envp .
The argument
.I envp
must point to an
object set by a call to
.BR feholdexcept (3M)
or \fBfegetenv\fR(3M) or
equal to the macro
.BR FE_DFL_ENV .
The
.B fex_merge_flags()
function
does not raise any exceptions, but only sets its flags.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B fex_merge_flags
function does not return a value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
AvailabilitySUNWlibms, SUNWlmsx
Interface StabilityStable
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fegetenv (3M),
.BR fesetround (3M),
.BR fesetprec (3M),
.BR fex_set_handling (3M),
.BR fex_set_log (3M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Numerical Computation Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In a multithreaded program, the
.B fex_merge_flags()
function affects
the floating point environment only for the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fex_merge_flags()
function automatically installs and deinstalls
.B SIGFPE
handlers and sets and clears the trap enable mode bits in the
floating point status register as needed.  If a program uses these functions
and attempts to install a
.B SIGFPE
handler or control the trap enable
mode bits independently, the resulting behavior is not defined.
