'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH llround 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llround, llroundf, llroundl \- round to nearest integer value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBlong long\fR \fBllround\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllroundf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllroundl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions rounds their argument to the nearest integer value,
rounding halfway cases away from 0 regardless of the current rounding
direction.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
 Upon successful completion, these functions return the rounded integer value.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is NaN, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is
returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is +Inf, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is
returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is -Inf, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is
returned.
.sp
.LP
If the correct value is positive and too large to represent as a
.BR "long long" ,
a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.sp
.LP
 If the correct value is negative and too large to represent as a
.BR "long long" ,
a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Domain Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I x
argument is NaN or \(+-Inf, or the correct value is not
representable as an integer.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception will be raised.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
.RB "return, if " fetestexcept ( FE_INVALID " |"
.B FE_DIVBYZERO
|
.B FE_OVERFLOW
|
.BR FE_UNDERFLOW )
is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.sp
.LP
These functions differ from the
.BR llrint (3M)
functions in that the
default rounding direction for the
.B llround()
functions round halfway
cases away from 0 and need not raise the inexact floating-point exception
for non-integer arguments that round to within the range of the return
type.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fetestexcept (3M),
.BR llrint (3M),
.BR lrint (3M),
.BR lround (3M),
.BR math.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
