'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH logb 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
logb, logbf, logbl \- radix-independent exponent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBlogb\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBlogbf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBlogbl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBlogb\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBlogbf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBlogbl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compute the exponent of
.IR x ,
which is the integral part
of log(\fIr\fR) |\fIx\fR|, as a signed floating point value, for non-zero
.IR x ,
where
.I r
is the radix of the machine's floating-point
arithmetic, which is the value of
.B FLT_RADIX
defined in the
<\fBfloat.h\fR> header.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the exponent of
.IR x .
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is subnormal:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For SUSv3-conforming applications compiled with the
.B c99
compiler
driver (see
.BR standards (5)),
the exponent of
.I x
as if
.I x
were
normalized is returned.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Otherwise, if compiled with the
.B cc
compiler driver, \(mi1022,
\(mi126, and \(mi16382 are returned for
.BR logb() ,
.BR logbf() ,
and
.BR logbl() ,
respectively.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-0, a pole error occurs and
.BR logb() ,
.BR logbf() ,
and
.B logbl()
return \(mi\fBHUGE_VAL\fR, \(mi\fBHUGE_VALF\fR, and
\(mi\fBHUGE_VALL\fR, respectively.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is NaN, a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-Inf, +Inf is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Pole Error
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The value of
.I x
is \(+-0.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the divide-by-zero floating-point exception is raised.
.sp
The
.B logb()
function sets
.B errno
to
.B EDOM
if the value of
.I x
is 0.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
return, if \fBfetestexcept\fR(\fBFE_INVALID\fR |
.B FE_DIVBYZERO
|
.B FE_OVERFLOW
|
.BR FE_UNDERFLOW )
is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.sp
.LP
An application can also set
.B errno
to 0 before calling
.BR logb() .
On return, if
.B errno
is non-zero, an error has occurred. The
.B logbf()
and
.B logbl()
functions do not set
.BR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fetestexcept (3M),
.BR ilogb (3M),
.BR math.h (3HEAD),
.BR matherr (3M),
.BR scalb (3M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
