'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nextafter 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nextafter, nextafterf, nextafterl, nexttoward, nexttowardf, nexttowardl \-
next representable double-precision floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBnextafter\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR, \fBdouble\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBnextafterf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR, \fBfloat\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBnextafterl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR, \fBlong double\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdouble\fR \fBnexttoward\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR, \fBlong double\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBnexttowardf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR, \fBlong double\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBnexttowardl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR, \fBlong double\fR \fIy\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR nextafter() ,
.BR nextafterf() ,
and
.B nextafterl()
functions
compute the next representable floating-point value following
.I x
in the
direction of
.IR y .
Thus, if
.I y
is less than
.IR x ,
.B nextafter()
returns the largest representable floating-point number
less than
.IR x .
The
.BR nextafter() ,
.BR nextafterf() ,
and
.B nextafterl()
functions return
.I y
if
.I x
equals
.IR y .
.sp
.LP
The
.BR nexttoward() ,
.BR nexttowardf() ,
and
.BR nexttowardl()
functions are equivalent to the corresponding
.B nextafter()
functions,
except that the second parameter has type
.B "long double"
and the
functions return
.I y
converted to the type of the function if
.IR x
equals
.IR y .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the next representable
floating-point value following
.I x
in the direction of
.IR y .
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
==
.IR y ,
.I y
(of the type
.IR x )
is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is finite and the correct function value would overflow, a range
error occurs and
.RB \(+- HUGE_VAL ,
\(+-\fBHUGE_VALF\fR, and
.RB \(+- HUGE_VALL
(with the same sign as
.IR x )
is returned as
appropriate for the return type of the function.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
or
.I y
is NaN, a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
!=
.I y
and the correct function value is subnormal, zero, or
underflows, a range error occurs and either the correct function value (if
representable) or 0.0 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Range Error
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The correct value overflows.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the overflow floating-point exception is raised.
.sp
The \fBnextafter()\fR function sets \fBerrno\fR to
.B ERANGE
if the
correct value would overflow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Range Error
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The correct value underflows.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the underflow floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
.RB "return, if " fetestexcept ( FE_INVALID " |"
.B FE_DIVBYZERO
|
.B FE_OVERFLOW
|
.BR FE_UNDERFLOW )
is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.sp
.LP
An application can also set
.B errno
to 0 before calling
.BR nextafter() .
On return, if
.B errno
is non-zero, an error has
occurred. The
.BR nextafterf() ,
.BR nextafterl() .
.BR nexttoward() ,
.BR nexttowardf() ,
and
.B nexttowardl()
functions do not set
.BR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fetestexcept (3M),
.BR math.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
