'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pow 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pow, powf, powl \- power function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBpow\fR(\fBdouble\fR x, \fBdouble\fR y);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBpowf\fR(\fBfloat\fR x, \fBfloat\fR y);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBpowl\fR(\fBlong double\fR x, \fBlong double\fR y);
.fi

.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBpow\fR(\fBdouble\fR x, \fBdouble\fR y);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBpowf\fR(\fBfloat\fR x, \fBfloat\fR y);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBpowl\fR(\fBlong double\fR x, \fBlong double\fR y);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compute the value of
.I x
raised to the power
.IR y,
\fIx\fR^y>. If \fIx\fR is negative,
.I y
must be an integer value.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the value of
.I x
raised to the power
.IR y .
.sp
.LP
For finite values of
.I x
< 0, and finite non-integer values of
.IR y ,
a domain error occurs and either a NaN (if representable), or an
implementation-defined value is returned.
.sp
.LP
If the correct value would cause overflow, a range error occurs and
.BR pow() ,
.BR powf() ,
and
.B powl()
return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
and
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
or
.I y
is a NaN, a NaN is returned unless:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I x
is +1 and
.I y
is NaN and the application was compiled with
the
.B c99
compiler driver and is therefore SUSv3-conforming (see
.BR standards (5)),
1.0 is returned.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For any value of
.I x
(including NaN), if
.I y
is +0, 1.0 is
returned.
.RE
.sp
.LP
For any odd integer value of
.I y
> 0, if
.I x
is \(+-0, \(+-0 is
returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
> 0 and not an odd integer, if
.I x
is \(+-0, +0 is
returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-1 and
.I y
is \(+-Inf, and the application was
compiled with the
.B cc
compiler driver, NaN is returned. If, however,
the application was compiled with the
.B c99
compiler driver and is
therefore SUSv3-conforming (see\fBstandards\fR(5)), 1.0 is returned.
.sp
.LP
For |\fIx\fR| < 1, if
.I y
is \(miInf, +Inf is returned.
.sp
.LP
For |\fIx\fR| > 1, if
.I y
is \(miInf, +0 is returned.
.sp
.LP
.RI "For |" x "| < 1, if " y " is +Inf, +0 is returned."
.sp
.LP
.RI "For |" x "| > 1, if " y " is +Inf, +Inf is returned."
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
an odd integer < 0, if
.I x
is \(miInf, \(mi0 is returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
< 0 and not an odd integer, if
.I x
is \(miInf, +0 is
returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
an odd integer > 0, if
.I x
is \(miInf, \(miInf is
returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
> 0 and not an odd integer, if
.I x
is \(miInf, +Inf is
returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
< 0, if
.I x
is +Inf, +0 is returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
> 0, if
.I x
is +Inf, +Inf is returned.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
an odd integer < 0, if
.I x
is \(+-0, a pole error occurs
and \(+-\fBHUGE_VAL\fR, \(+-\fBHUGE_VALF\fR, and \(+-\fBHUGE_VALL\fR are
returned for
.BR pow() ,
.BR powf() ,
and
.BR powl() ,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
For
.I y
< 0 and not an odd integer, if
.I x
is \(+-0, a pole error
occurs and
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
and
.B HUGE_VALL
are returned
for
.BR pow() ,
.BR powf() ,
and
.BR powl() ,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
For exceptional cases,
.BR matherr (3M)
tabulates the values to be
returned by
.B pow()
as specified by SVID3 and XPG3.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Domain Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value of
.I x
is negative and
.I y
is a finite non-integer.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the invalid floating-point exception is raised.
.sp
The
.B pow()
function sets
.B errno
to
.B EDOM
if the value of
.I x
is negative and
.I y
is non-integral.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Pole Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value of
.I x
is 0 and
.I y
is negative.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the divide-by-zero floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Range Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The result overflows.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, the overflow floating-point exception is raised.
.sp
The
.B pow()
function sets
.B errno
to
.B EDOM
if the value to be
returned would cause overflow.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
.RB "return, if " fetestexcept ( FE_INVALID " |"
.B FE_DIVBYZERO
|
.B FE_OVERFLOW
|
.BR FE_UNDERFLOW )
is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.sp
.LP
An application can also set
.B errno
to 0 before calling
.BR pow() .
On
return, if
.B errno
is non-zero, an error has occurred. The
.B powf()
and
.B powl()
functions do not set
.BR errno .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exp (3M),
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fetestexcept (3M),
.BR isnan (3M),
.BR math.h (3HEAD),
.BR matherr (3M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Prior to Solaris 2.6,  there was a conflict between the
.B pow()
function in this library and the
.B pow()
function in the
.BR libmp
library. This conflict was resolved by prepending
.B mp_
to all functions
in the
.B libmp
library. See
.BR mp (3MP)
for more information.
