'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
.\" Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scalb 3M "12 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scalb, scalbf, scalbl \- load exponent of a radix-independent
floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBscalb\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR, \fBdouble\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBscalbf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR, \fBfloat\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBscalbl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR, \fBlong double\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compute x * \fIr\fR^n, where \fIr\fR is the radix of the
machine's floating point arithmetic. When
.I r
is 2,
.B scalb()
is
equivalent to \fBldexp\fR(3M). The value of
.I r
is
.B FLT_RADIX
which
is defined in <\fBfloat.h\fR>.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the
.B scalb()
function returns
.I x
*
.IR r ^n.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
or
.I n
is NaN, a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I n
is 0,
.I x
is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-Inf and \fIn\fR is not \(miInf,
.I x
is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-0 and \fIn\fR is not +Inf,
.I x
is returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-0 and \fIn\fR is +Inf, a domain error occurs and a NaN is
returned.
.sp
.LP
If
.I x
is \(+-Inf and \fIn\fR is \(miInf, a domain error occurs and a
NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If the result would cause an overflow, a range error occurs and
\(+-\fBHUGE_VAL\fR (according to the sign of
.IR x )
is returned.
.sp
.LP
For exceptional cases,
.BR matherr (3M)
tabulates the values to be
returned by
.B scalb()
as specified by SVID3 and XPG3. See
.BR standards (5).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Domain Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
If
.I x
is 0 and
.I n
is +Inf, or
.I x
is Inf and
.I n
is
\(miInf.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Range Error
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The result would overflow.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR &
.BR MATH_ERREXCEPT )
is non-zero, then the overflow floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
return, if \fBfetestexcept\fR(\fBFE_INVALID\fR |
.B FE_DIVBYZERO
|
.B FE_OVERFLOW
|
.BR FE_UNDERFLOW )
is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
The
.B scalb()
function is Standard. The
.B scalbf()
and
.B scalbl()
functions are Stable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR feclearexcept (3M),
.BR fetestexcept (3M),
.BR ilogb (3M),
.BR ldexp (3M),
.BR logb (3M),
.BR math.h (3HEAD),
.BR matherr (3M),
.BR scalbln (3M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
