'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH connect 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
connect \- connect a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBconnect\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBconst struct sockaddr *\fIaddress\fR,
    \fBsocklen_t\fR \fIaddress_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B connect()
function requests a connection to be made on a socket.
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I socket
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the file descriptor associated with the socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I address
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure containing the peer address.  The
length and format of the address depend on the address family of the
socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I address_len
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
.I address
argument.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the socket has not already been bound to a local address,
.B connect()
will bind it to an address which, unless the socket's
address family  is AF_UNIX, is an unused local address.
.sp
.LP
If the initiating socket is not connection-mode, then
.B connect()
sets
the socket's peer address, but no connection is made.  For SOCK_DGRAM
sockets, the peer address identifies where all datagrams are sent on
subsequent \fBsend\fR(3XNET) calls, and limits the remote sender for
subsequent \fBrecv\fR(3XNET) calls. If \fIaddress\fR is a null address for
the protocol, the socket's peer address will be reset.
.sp
.LP
If the initiating socket is connection-mode, then
.B connect()
attempts
to establish a connection to the address specified by the
.IR address
argument.
.sp
.LP
If the connection cannot be established immediately and O_NONBLOCK is not
set for the file descriptor for the socket,
.B connect()
will block for
up to an unspecified timeout interval until the connection is established.
If the timeout interval expires before the connection is established,
.B connect()
will fail and the connection attempt will be aborted.  If
.B connect()
is interrupted by a signal that is caught while blocked
waiting to establish a connection,
.B connect()
will fail and set
.B errno
to
.BR EINTR ,
but the connection request will not be aborted,
and the connection will be established asynchronously.
.sp
.LP
If the connection cannot be established immediately and O_NONBLOCK is set
for the file descriptor for the socket,
.B connect()
will fail and set
.B errno
to
.BR EINPROGRESS ,
but the connection request will not be
aborted, and the connection will be established asynchronously. Subsequent
calls to
.B connect()
for the same socket, before the connection is
established, will fail and set
.B errno
to
.BR EALREADY .
.sp
.LP
When the connection has been established asynchronously,
.BR select (3C)
and
.BR poll (2)
will indicate that the file descriptor for the socket is
ready for writing.
.sp
.LP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to
use the
.B connect()
function.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If
.B connect()
fails, the state of the socket is unspecified.  Portable
applications should close the file descriptor and create a new socket before
attempting to reconnect.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B connect()
returns 0.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B connect()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EADDRNOTAVAIL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The specified address is not a valid address for the address family of the
specified socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EALREADY
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
A connection request is already in progress for the specified socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECONNREFUSED
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The target address was not listening for connections or refused the
connection request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The address parameter can not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINPROGRESS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
O_NONBLOCK is set for the file descriptor for the socket and the connection
cannot be immediately established; the connection will be established
asynchronously.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The attempt to establish a connection was interrupted by delivery of a
signal that was caught; the connection will be established asynchronously.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EISCONN
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The specified socket is connection-mode and is already connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENETUNREACH
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
No route to the network is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTOTYPE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The specified address has a different type than the socket bound to the
specified peer address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ETIMEDOUT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The attempt to connect timed out before a connection was made.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then
.B connect()
will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname in
.IR address .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of a pathname exceeded
.I NAME_MAX
characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded
.I PATH_MAX
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname
is an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in
.I address
is not a
directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B connect()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write
access to the named socket is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EADDRINUSE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Attempt to establish a connection that uses addresses that are already in
use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECONNRESET
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Remote host reset the connection request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EHOSTUNREACH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The destination host cannot be reached (probably because the host is down
or a remote router cannot reach it).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I address_len
argument is not a valid length for the address
family; or invalid address family in sockaddr structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result
whose length exceeds
.IR PATH_MAX .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENETDOWN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The local interface used to reach the destination is down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
No buffer space is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available to complete the
operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOPNOTSUPP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket is listening and can not be connected.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR close (2),
.BR poll (2),
.BR accept (3XNET),
.BR bind (3XNET),
.BR getsockname (3XNET),
.BR select (3C),
.BR send (3XNET),
.BR shutdown (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
