'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH endhostent 3XNET "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
endhostent, gethostbyaddr, gethostbyname, gethostent, sethostent \- network
host database functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <netdb.h>
extern int h_errno;

\fBvoid\fR \fBendhostent\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct hostent *\fBgethostbyaddr\fR(\fBconst void *\fIaddr\fR, \fBsocklen_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct hostent *\fBgethostbyname\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct hostent *\fBgethostent\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsethostent\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstayopen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR gethostent() ,
.BR gethostbyaddr() ,
and
.BR gethostbyname()
functions each return a pointer to a
.B hostent
structure, the members of
which contain the fields of an entry in the network host database.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethostent()
function reads the next entry of the database,
opening a connection to the database if necessary.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethostbyaddr()
function searches the database and finds an entry
which matches the address family specified by the
.B type
argument and
which matches the address pointed to by the
.I addr
argument,  opening a
connection to the database if necessary.  The
.I addr
argument is a
pointer to the binary-format (that is, not null-terminated) address in
network byte order, whose length is specified by the
.I len
argument.
The datatype of the address depends on the address family.  For an address
of type
.BR AF_INET ,
this is an
.B in_addr
structure, defined in
<\fBnetinet/in.h\fR>. For an address of type
.BR AF_INET6 ,
there is an
.B in6_addr
structure defined in <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR>.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethostbyname()
function searches the database and finds an entry
which matches the host name specified by the
.I name
argument, opening a
connection to the database if necessary. If
.I name
is an alias for a
valid host name, the function returns information about the host name  to
which the alias refers, and
.I name
is included in the list of aliases
returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sethostent()
function opens a connection to the network host
database, and sets the position of the next entry to the first entry.  If
the
.I stayopen
argument is non-zero, the connection to the host database
will not be closed after each call to
.B gethostent()
(either directly,
or indirectly through one of the other \fBgethost*(\|)\fR functions).
.sp
.LP
The
.B endhostent()
function closes the connection to the database.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.BR gethostent() ,
.BR gethostbyaddr() ,
and
.BR gethostbyname()
functions may return pointers to static data, which may be overwritten by
subsequent calls to any of these functions.
.sp
.LP
These functions are generally used with the Internet address family.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,
.BR gethostbyaddr() ,
.B gethostbyname()
and
.B gethostent()
return a pointer to a
.B hostent
structure if the
requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was
reached or the requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer is
returned.
.sp
.LP
On unsuccessful completion,
.B gethostbyaddr()
and
.BR gethostbyname()
functions set
.I h_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined for
.BR endhostent() ,
.B gethostent()
and
.BR sethostent() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B gethostbyaddr()
and
.B gethostbyname()
functions will fail in
the following cases, setting
.I h_errno
to the value shown in the list
below. Any changes to
.B errno
are unspecified.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HOST_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
No such host is known.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NO_DATA
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The server recognised the request and the name but no address is available.
Another type of request to the name server for the domain might return an
answer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NO_RECOVERY
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
An unexpected server failure occurred which can not be recovered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TRY_AGAIN
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A temporary and possibly transient error occurred, such as a failure of a
server to respond.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR endservent (3XNET),
.BR htonl (3XNET),
.BR inet_addr (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
