'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH endservent 3XNET "14 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
endservent, getservbyport, getservbyname, getservent, setservent \- network
services database functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <netdb.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBendservent\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct servent *\fBgetservbyname\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR, \fBconst char *\fIproto\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct servent *\fBgetservbyport\fR(\fBint\fR \fIport\fR, \fBconst char *\fIproto\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct servent *\fBgetservent\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetservent\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstayopen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR getservbyname() ,
.B getservbyport()
and
.BR getservent()
functions each return a pointer to a
.B servent
structure, the members of
which contain the fields of an entry in the network services database.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getservent()
function reads the next entry of the database,
opening a connection to the database if necessary.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getservbyname()
function searches the database from the beginning
and finds the first entry for which the service name specified by
.IR name
matches the
.B s_name
member and the protocol name specified by
.I proto
matches the
.B s_proto
member, opening a connection to the
database if necessary.  If
.I proto
is a null pointer, any value of the
.B s_proto
member will be matched.
.sp
.LP
The
.B getservbyport()
function searches the database from the beginning
and finds the first entry for which the port specified by
.I port
matches
the
.B s_port
member and the protocol name specified by
.IR proto
matches the
.B s_proto
member, opening a connection to the database if
necessary. If
.I proto
is a null pointer, any value of the \fBs_proto\fR
member will be matched.  The
.I port
argument must be in network byte
order.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setservent()
function opens a connection to the database, and
sets the next entry to the first entry.  If the
.I stayopen
argument is
non-zero, the net database will not be closed after each call to the
.B getservent()
function, either directly, or indirectly through one of
the other
.B getserv*()
functions.
.sp
.LP
The
.B endservent()
function closes the database.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.I port
argument of
.B getservbyport()
need not be compatible
with the port values of all address families.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR getservent() ,
.B getservbyname()
and
.BR getservbyport()
functions may return pointers to static data, which may be overwritten by
subsequent calls to any of these functions.
.sp
.LP
These functions are generally used with the Internet address family.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,
.BR getservbyname() ,
.B getservbyport()
and
.B getservent()
return a pointer to a
.B servent
structure if the
requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was
reached or the requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer is
returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR endhostent (3XNET),
.BR endprotoent (3XNET),
.BR htonl (3XNET),
.BR inet_addr (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
