'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getpeername 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getpeername \- get the name of the peer socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetpeername\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBstruct sockaddr *restrict\fR \fIaddress\fR,
     \fBsocklen_t *restrict\fR \fIaddress_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpeername()
function retrieves the peer address of the
specified socket, stores this address in the
.B sockaddr
structure
pointed to by the
.I address
argument, and stores the length of this
address in the object pointed to by the
.I address_len
argument.
.sp
.LP
If the actual length of the address is greater than the length of the
supplied
.B sockaddr
structure, the stored address will be truncated.
.sp
.LP
If the protocol permits connections by unbound clients, and the peer is not
bound, then the value stored in the object pointed to by
.I address
is
unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned
and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpeername()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.I address
or
.I address_len
parameter can not be accessed or
written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The socket has been shut down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTCONN
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The socket is not connected or otherwise has not had the peer
prespecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOPNOTSUPP
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The operation is not supported for the socket protocol.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B getpeername()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete the call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to
complete.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR accept (3XNET),
.BR bind (3XNET),
.BR getsockname (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
