'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH listen 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
listen \- listen for socket connections and limit the queue of incoming
connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlisten\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbacklog\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B listen()
function marks a connection-mode socket, specified by
the
.I socket
argument, as accepting connections, and limits the number
of outstanding connections in the socket's listen queue to the value
specified by the
.I backlog
argument.
.sp
.LP
If
.B listen()
is called with a
.I backlog
argument value that is
less than 0, the function sets the length of the socket's listen queue to
0.
.sp
.LP
The implementation may include incomplete connections in the queue subject
to the queue limit. The implementation may also increase the specified queue
limit internally if it includes such incomplete connections in the queue
subject to this limit.
.sp
.LP
Implementations may limit the length of the socket's listen queue.  If
.I backlog
exceeds the implementation-dependent maximum queue length, the
length of the socket's listen queue will be set to the maximum supported
value.
.sp
.LP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to
use the
.B listen()
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completions,
.B listen()
returns 0.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B listen()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDESTADDRREQ
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket is not bound to a local address, and the protocol does not
support listening on an unbound socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
is already connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOPNOTSUPP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket protocol does not support
.BR listen() .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B listen()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The calling process does not have the appropriate privileges.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.I socket
has been shut down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Insufficient resources are available in the system to complete the call.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR accept (3XNET),
.BR connect (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
