'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved. 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sendto 3XNET "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sendto \- send a message on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBsendto\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBconst void *\fImessage\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlength\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBconst struct sockaddr *\fIdest_addr\fR, \fBsocklen_t\fR \fIdest_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sendto()
function sends a message through a connection-mode or
connectionless-mode socket.  If the socket is connectionless-mode, the
message will be sent to the address specified by
.IR dest_addr .
If the
socket is connection-mode,
.I dest_addr
is ignored.
.sp
.LP
If the socket protocol supports broadcast and the specified address is a
broadcast address for the socket protocol,
.B sendto()
will fail if the
.B SO_BROADCAST
option is not set for the socket.
.sp
.LP
The
.I dest_addr
argument specifies the address of the target. The
.I length
argument specifies the length of the message.
.sp
.LP
Successful completion of a call to
.B sendto()
does not guarantee
delivery of the message. A return value of \fB\(mi1\fR indicates only
locally-detected errors.
.sp
.LP
If space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be
transmitted and the socket file descriptor does not have
.BR O_NONBLOCK
set,
.B sendto()
blocks until space is available. If space is not
available at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and
the socket file descriptor does have
.B O_NONBLOCK
.RB set, " sendto()"
will fail.
.sp
.LP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to
use the
.B sendto()
function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I socket
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the socket file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I message
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Points to a buffer containing the message to be sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I length
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the size of the message in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the type of message transmission. Values of this argument are
formed by logically OR'ing zero or more of the following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MSG_EOR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MSG_OOB
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support out-of-band data. The
significance and semantics of out-of-band data are protocol-specific.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dest_addr
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure containing the destination address.
The length and format of the address depend on the address family of the
socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dest_len
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
.I dest_addr
argument.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.BR select "(3C) and"
.BR poll (2)
functions can be used to determine
when it is possible to send more data.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B sendto()
returns the number of bytes
sent. Otherwise,
.B -1
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sendto()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Addresses in the specified address family cannot be used with this
socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.br
.na
.B EWOULDBLOCK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket's file descriptor is marked
.B O_NONBLOCK
and the requested
operation would block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECONNRESET
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I message
or
.I destaddr
parameter cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A signal interrupted
.B sendto()
before any data was transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EMSGSIZE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The message is too large to be sent all at once, as the socket requires.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTCONN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket is connection-mode but is not connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOPNOTSUPP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is associated with a socket that does not support
one or more of the values set in
.IR flags .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPIPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket is shut down for writing, or the socket is connection-mode and
is no longer connected. In the latter case, and if the socket is of type
.BR SOCK_STREAM ,
the
.B SIGPIPE
signal is generated to the calling
thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR sendto()
will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ELOOP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname in the
socket address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of a pathname exceeded
.I NAME_MAX
characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded
.I PATH_MAX
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname
is an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTDIR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in the socket address is not
a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B sendto()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write
access to the named socket is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDESTADDRREQ
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket is not connection-mode and does not have its peer address set,
and no destination address was specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EHOSTUNREACH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The destination host cannot be reached (probably because the host is down
or a remote router cannot reach it).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I dest_len
argument is not a valid length for the address family.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EISCONN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A destination address was specified and the socket is already connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENETDOWN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The local interface used to reach the destination is down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENETUNREACH
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
No route to the network is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the
operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to
complete.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR sendto()
may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result
whose length exceeds
.IR PATH_MAX .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR poll (2),
.BR getsockopt (3XNET),
.BR recv (3XNET),
.BR recvfrom (3XNET),
.BR recvmsg (3XNET),
.BR select (3C),
.BR send (3XNET),
.BR sendmsg (3XNET),
.BR setsockopt (3XNET),
.BR shutdown (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
