'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setsockopt 3XNET "21 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
setsockopt \- set the socket options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetsockopt\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoption_name\fR,
     \fBconst void*\fIoption_value\fR, \fBsocklen_t\fR \fIoption_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B setsockopt()
function sets the option specified by the
\fIoption_name\fR argument, at the protocol level specified by the \fIlevel\fR
argument, to the value pointed to by the
.I option_value
argument for the
socket associated with the file descriptor specified by the
.IR socket
argument.
.sp
.LP
The
.I level
argument specifies the protocol level at which the option
resides. To set options at the socket level, specify the
.I level
argument as
.BR SOL_SOCKET .
To set options at other levels, supply the appropriate protocol
number for the protocol controlling the option.  For example, to indicate that an
option will be interpreted by the TCP (Transport Control Protocol), set
\fIlevel\fR to the protocol number of TCP, as defined in the<\fBnetinet/in.h\fR>
header, or as determined by using
.BR getprotobyname (3XNET).
.sp
.LP
The
.I option_name
argument specifies a single option to set.  The
\fIoption_name\fR argument and any specified options are passed uninterpreted to
the appropriate protocol module for interpretations. The <\fBsys/socket.h\fR>
header defines the socket level options. The options are as follow
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_DEBUG
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Turns on recording of debugging information.  This option enables or disables
.RB "debugging in the underlying protocol modules.  This option takes an" " int"
value. This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_BROADCAST
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Permits sending of broadcast messages, if this is supported by the protocol.
This option takes an
.B int
value. This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_REUSEADDR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Specifies that the rules used in validating addresses supplied to
.BR bind (3XNET)
should allow reuse of local addresses, if this is supported by
the protocol. This option takes an
.B int
value. This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_KEEPALIVE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Keeps connections active by enabling the periodic transmission of messages, if
this is supported by the protocol.  This option takes an
.B int
value.
.sp
If the connected socket fails to respond to these messages, the connection is
broken and threads writing to that socket are notified with a
.BR SIGPIPE
signal.
.sp
This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_LINGER
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Lingers on a
.BR close (2)
if data is present.  This option controls the action
taken when unsent messages queue on a socket and
.BR close (2)
is performed.  If
\fBSO_LINGER\fR is set, the system blocks the process during
.BR close (2)
until
it can transmit the data or until the time expires.  If
.B SO_LINGER
is not
specified, and
.BR close (2)
is issued, the system handles the call in a way
that allows the process to continue as quickly as possible.  This option takes a
\fBlinger\fR structure, as defined in the <\fBsys/socket.h\fR> header, to specify
the state of the option and linger interval.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_OOBINLINE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Leaves received out-of-band data (data marked urgent) in line. This option takes
an
.B int
value. This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_SNDBUF
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets send buffer size.  This option takes an
.B int
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_RCVBUF
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets receive buffer size. This option takes an
.B int
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_DONTROUTE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Requests that outgoing messages bypass the standard routing facilities. The
destination must be on a directly-connected network, and messages are directed to
the appropriate network interface according to the destination address. The
effect, if any, of this option depends on what protocol is in use. This option
takes an
.B int
value. This is a boolean option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_MAC_EXEMPT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Sets the mandatory access control on the socket. A socket that has this option
enabled can communicate with an unlabeled peer if the socket is in the global
zone or has a label that dominates the default label of the peer. Otherwise, the
socket must have a label that is equal to the default label of the unlabeled
peer.
.B SO_MAC_EXEMPT
is a boolean option that is available only when the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SO_ALLZONES
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Bypasses zone boundaries (privileged). This option stores an
.B int
value.
This is a boolean option.
.sp
The
.B SO_ALLZONES
option can be used to bypass zone boundaries between
shared-IP zones. Normally, the system prevents a socket from being bound to an
address that is not assigned to the current zone. It also prevents a socket that
is bound to a wildcard address from receiving traffic for other zones. However,
some daemons which run in the global zone might need to send and receive traffic
using addresses that belong to other shared-IP zones. If set before a socket is
bound,
.B SO_ALLZONES
causes the socket to ignore zone boundaries between
shared-IP zones and permits the socket to be bound to any address assigned to the
shared-IP zones. If the socket is bound to a wildcard address, it receives
traffic intended for all shared-IP zones and behaves as if an equivalent socket
were bound in each active shared-IP zone. Applications that use the
\fBSO_ALLZONES\fR option to initiate connections or send datagram traffic should
specify the source address for outbound traffic by binding to a specific address.
There is no effect from setting this option in an exclusive-IP zone. Setting this
option requires the \fBsys_net_config\fR privilege. See
.BR zones (5).
.RE

.sp
.LP
For boolean options,
.B 0
indicates that the option is disabled and
.BR 1
indicates that the option is enabled.
.sp
.LP
Options at other protocol levels vary in format and name.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B setsockopt()
function provides an application program with the means
to control socket behavior.  An application program can use
.B setsockopt()
to
allocate buffer space, control timeouts, or permit socket data broadcasts.  The
<\fBsys/socket.h\fR> header defines the socket-level options available to
.BR setsockopt() .
.sp
.LP
Options may exist at multiple protocol levels. The
.B SO_
options are always
present at the uppermost socket level.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B setsockopt()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise,
\fB-1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B setsockopt()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDOM
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The send and receive timeout values are too big to fit into the timeout fields
in the socket structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The
.I option_value
parameter can not be accessed or written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified option is invalid at the specified socket level or the socket has
been shut down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EISCONN
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The socket is already connected, and a  specified option can not be set while
the socket is connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOPROTOOPT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The option is not supported by the protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B setsockopt()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There was insufficient memory available for the operation to complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Insufficient resources are available in the system to complete the call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to
complete.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bind (3XNET),
.BR endprotoent (3XNET),
.BR getsockopt (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
