'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH shutdown 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- shut down socket send and receive operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBshutdown\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBint\fR \fIhow\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B shutdown()
function disables subsequent
.B send()
and
.B receive()
operations on a socket, depending on the value of the
.I how
argument.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I how
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the type of shutdown.  The values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHUT_RD
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables further receive operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHUT_WR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables further send operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SHUT_RDWR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Disables further send and receive operations.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I socket
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies the file descriptor of the socket.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B shutdown()
returns 0.  Otherwise, \(mi1
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B shutdown()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The
.I how
argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTCONN
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The socket is not connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOTSOCK
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B shutdown()
function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOBUFS
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the
operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOSR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to
complete.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getsockopt (3XNET),
.BR recv (3XNET),
.BR recvfrom (3XNET),
.BR recvmsg (3XNET),
.BR select (3C),
.BR send (3XNET),
.BR sendto (3XNET),
.BR setsockopt (3XNET),
.BR socket (3XNET),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
