'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH blcompare 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
blcompare, blequal, bldominates, blstrictdom, blinrange \- compare binary
labels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBint\fR \fBblequal\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel1\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBbldominates\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel1\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBblstrictdom\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel1\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBblinrange\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel\fR, \fBconst brange_t *\fIrange\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compare binary labels for meeting a particular condition.
.sp
.LP
The
.B blequal()
function compares two labels for equality.
.sp
.LP
The
.B bldominates()
function compares label
.I label1
for dominance
over label
.IR label2 .
.sp
.LP
The
.B blstrictdom()
function compares label
.I label1
for strict
dominance over label
.IR label2 .
.sp
.LP
The
.B blinrange()
function compares label
.I label
for dominance
over
.IR range \(-> lower_bound
and
\fIrange\fR\(->\fIupper_bound\fR
for dominance over level
.IR label .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return non-zero if their respective conditions are met,
otherwise zero is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getplabel (3TSOL),
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR ucred_getlabel (3C),
.BR label_encodings (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR labels (5)
.sp
.LP
.I "Determining the Relationship Between Two Labels
in
.I
Solaris Trusted Extensions Developer\&'s Guide
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
