'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH blminmax 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
blminmax, blmaximum, blminimum \- bound of two labels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBblmaximum\fR(\fBm_label_t *\fImaximum_label\fR,
     \fBconst m_label_t *\fIbounding_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBblminimum\fR(\fBm_label_t *\fIminimum_label\fR,
     \fBconst m_label_t *\fIbounding_label\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B blmaximum()
function replaces the contents of label
.I maximum_label
with the least upper bound of the labels
.I maximum_label
and
.IR bounding_label .
The least upper bound is the
greater of the classifications and all of the compartments of the two
labels. This is the least label that dominates both of the original
labels.
.sp
.LP
The
.B blminimum()
function replaces the contents of label
.I minimum_label
with the greatest lower bound of the labels
.I minimum_label
and
.IR bounding_label .
The greatest lower bound is
the lower of the classifications and only the compartments that are
contained in both labels. This is the greatest label that is dominated by
both of the original labels.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR sbltos (3TSOL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
