'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getplabel 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getplabel \- get process label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetplabel\fR(\fBm_label_t *\fIlabel_p\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getplabel()
function obtains the sensitivity label of the calling
process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B getplabel()
returns 0. Otherwise it
returns -1,
.I label_p
is unchanged, and
.I errno
is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getplabel()
function fails and
.I label_p
does not refer to a
valid sensitivity label if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
.I label_p
points to an invalid address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ucred_getlabel (3C),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR m_label_alloc (3TSOL),
.BR m_label_free (3TSOL),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Obtaining a Process Label
in \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.sp
.LP
This function returns different values for system processes than
.BR ucred_getlabel (3C)
returns.
