'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getzonelabelbyid 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getzonelabelbyid, getzonelabelbyname, getzoneidbylabel \- map between zones
and labels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflags\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBm_label_t *\fBgetzonelabelbyid\fR(\fBzoneid_t\fR \fIzoneid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBm_label_t *\fBgetzonelabelbyname\fR(\fBconst char *\fIzonename\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBzoneid_t *\fBgetzoneidbylabel\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getzonelabelbyid()
function returns the mandatory access control
(MAC) label of
.IR zoneid .
.sp
.LP
The
.B getzonelabelbyname()
function returns the MAC label of the zone
whose name is
.IR zonename .
.sp
.LP
The
.B getzoneidbylabel()
function returns the zone ID of the zone whose
label is
.IR label .
.sp
.LP
All of these functions require that the specified zone's state is at least
.BR ZONE_IS_READY .
The zone of the calling process must dominate the
specified zone's label, or the calling process must be in the global zone.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the
.B getzonelabelbyid()
and
.B getzonelabelbyname()
functions return a pointer to a sensitivity label
that is allocated within these functions. To free the storage, use
.BR m_label_free (3TSOL).
If the zone does not exist,
.B NULL
is
returned.
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the
.B getzoneidbylabel()
function returns the
zone ID with the matching label. If there is no matching zone, the function
returns
.BR -1 .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B getzonelabelbyid()
and
.B getzonelabelbyname()
functions will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The specified zone does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B getzonelabelbyid()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
No zone corresponds to the specified label.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR getzonenamebyid (3C),
.BR getzoneidbyname (3C),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR m_label_free (3TSOL),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR labels (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
