'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH labelclipping 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
labelclipping, Xbsltos, Xbcleartos \- translate a binary label and clip to
the specified width
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR \fB-lDtTsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <Dt/label_clipping.h>

\fBXmString\fR \fBXbsltos\fR(\fBDisplay *\fIdisplay\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fIsenslabel\fR,
     \fBDimension\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBconst XmFontList\fR \fIfontlist\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBXmString\fR \fBXbcleartos\fR(\fBDisplay *\fIdisplay\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fIclearance\fR,
     \fBDimension\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBconst XmFontList\fR \fIfontlist\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The calling process must have
.B PRIV_SYS_TRANS_LABEL
in its set of
effective privileges to translate labels or clearances that dominate the
current process' sensitivity label.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I display
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The structure controlling the connection to an X Window System display.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I senslabel
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The sensitivity label to be translated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I clearance
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The clearance to be translated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The width of the translated label or clearance in pixels. If the specified
width is shorter than the full label, the label is clipped and the presence
of clipped letters is indicated by an arrow. In this example, letters have
been clipped to the right of: TS<-. See the
.BR sbltos (3TSOL)
manual page
for more information on the clipped indicator. If the specified width is
equal to the display width
.RI ( display ),
the label is not truncated, but
word-wrapped using a width of half the display width.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fontlist
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A list of fonts and character sets where each font is associated with a
character set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The value of flags indicates which words in the
.BR label_encodings (4)
file are used for the translation. See the
.BR bltos (3TSOL)
manual page
for a description of the flag values:
.BR LONG_WORDS ,
.BR SHORT_WORDS ,
.BR LONG_CLASSIFICATION ,
.BR SHORT_CLASSIFICATION ,
.B ALL_ENTRIES,
.BR "ACCESS_RELATED, VIEW_EXTERNAL" ,
.BR VIEW_INTERNAL ,
.BR NO_CLASSIFICATION .
.B BRACKETED
is an additional flag that can be
used with
.B Xbsltos()
only. It encloses the sensitivity label in square
brackets as follows: [C].
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return a compound string that represents the
character-coded form of the sensitivity label or clearance that is
translated. The compound string uses the language and fonts specified in
.I fontlist
and is clipped to
.IR width .
These functions return
.I NULL
if the label or clearance is not a valid, required type as
defined in the
.BR label_encodings (4)
file, or not dominated by the
process' sensitivity label and the
.B PRIV_SYS_TRANS_LABEL
privilege is
not asserted.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /usr/dt/include/Dt/label_clipping.h
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Header file for label clipping functions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/tsol/label_encodings
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The label encodings file contains the classification names, words,
constraints, and values for the defined labels of this system.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Translate and Clip a Clearance.
.sp
.LP
This example translates a clearance to text using the long words specified
in the
.BR label_encodings (4)
file, a font list, and clips the translated
clearance to a width of 72 pixels.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
xmstr = Xbcleartos(XtDisplay(topLevel),
&clearance, 72, fontlist, LONG_WORDS
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
The labelclipping functions,
.B Xbsltos()
and
.BR Xbcleartos() ,
are
obsolete. Use the
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL)
function instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bltos (3TSOL),
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR label_encodings (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
See
.BR XmStringDraw (3)
and
.BR FontList (3)
for information on the
creation and structure of a font list.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
