'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sbltos 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sbltos, sbsltos, sbcleartos \- translate binary labels to canonical
character-coded labels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBchar *\fBsbsltos\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIlabel\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBsbcleartos\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fIclearance\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions translate binary labels into canonical strings that are
clipped to the number of printable characters specified in
.IR len .
Clipping
is required if the number of characters of the translated string is greater
than
.IR len .
Clipping is done by truncating the label on the right to two
characters less than the specified number of characters. A clipped indicator,
"<\(mi", is appended to sensitivity labels and clearances. The character-coded
label begins with a classification name separated with a single space
character from the list of words making up the remainder of the label. The
binary labels must be of the proper defined type and dominated by the
process's sensitivity label. A
.I len
of 0 (zero) returns the entire string
with no clipping.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sbsltos()
function translates a binary sensitivity label into a
clipped string using the long form of the words and the short form of the
classification name. If
.I len
is less than the minimum number of
characters (three), the translation fails.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sbcleartos()
function translates a binary clearance into a clipped
string using the long form of the words and the short form of the
classification name. If
.I len
is less than the minimum number of
characters (three), the translation fails. The translation of a clearance
might not be the same as the translation of a sensitivity label. These
functions use different tables of the
.B label_encodings
file which might
contain different words and constraints.
.sp
.LP
The calling process must have
.B PRIV_SYS_TRANS_LABEL
in its set of
effective privileges to perform label translation on labels that dominate the
current process's sensitivity label.
.SS "Process Attributes"
.sp
.LP
If the
.B VIEW_EXTERNAL
or
.B VIEW_INTERNAL
flags are not specified,
translation of
.B ADMIN_LOW
and
.B ADMIN_HIGH
labels is controlled by
the label view process attribute flags. If no label view process attribute
flags are defined, their translation is controlled by the label view
configured in the
.B label_encodings
file. A value of External specifies
that
.B ADMIN_LOW
and
.B ADMIN_HIGH
labels are mapped to the lowest and
highest labels defined in the
.B label_encodings
file. A value of Internal
specifies that the
.B ADMIN_LOW
and
.B ADMIN_HIGH
labels are translated
to the
.B "admin low name"
and
.B "admin high name"
strings specified in the
.B label_encodings
file. If no such names are specified, the strings
"\fBADMIN_LOW\fR" and "\fBADMIN_HIGH\fR" are used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return a pointer to a statically allocated string that
contains the result of the translation, or
.B "(char *)0"
if the
translation fails for any reason.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "\fBsbsltos()\fR"
.sp
.LP
Assume that a sensitivity label is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
UN TOP/MIDDLE/LOWER DRAWER
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When clipped to ten characters it is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
UN TOP/M<\(mi
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "\fBsbcleartos()\fR"
.sp
.LP
Assume that a clearance is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
UN TOP/MIDDLE/LOWER DRAWER
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When clipped to ten characters it is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
UN TOP/M<\(mi
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/tsol/label_encodings
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The label encodings file contains the classification names, words,
constraints, and values for the defined labels of this system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and retained for ease of porting. They might be
removed in a future Solaris Trusted Extensions release. Use the
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL)
function instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR label_to_str (3TSOL),
.BR libtsol (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR labels (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
All these functions share the same statically allocated string storage. They
are not MT-Safe. Subsequent calls to any of these functions will overwrite
that string with the newly translated string.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
