'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tsol_getrhtype 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tsol_getrhtype \- get trusted network host type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR.\|.\|.] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-ltsnet\fR [\fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|.]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <libtsnet.h>

\fBtsol_host_type_t\fR \fBtsol_getrhtype\fR(\fBchar *\fIhostname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tsol_getrhtype()
function queries the kernel-level network
information to determine the host type that is associated with the specified
.IR hostname .
The
.I hostname
can be a regular hostname, an IP address,
or a network wildcard address.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The returned value will be one of the enumerated types that is defined in
the
.B tsol_host_type_t
typedef. Currently these types are
.B UNLABELED
and
.BR SUN_CIPSO .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/tsol/tnrhdb
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Trusted network remote-host database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.16i) |cw(3.34i)
lw(2.16i) |lw(3.34i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libtsnet (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Obtaining the Remote Host Type
in \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
