'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH FCOE_DeletePort 3FCOE "1 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "FCoE Port Management Library Functions"
.SH NAME
FCOE_DeletePort \- delete an FCoE port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lfcoe [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <libfcoe.h>

\fBint\fR \fBFCOE_DeletePort\fR(\fBconst char *\fImacLinkName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I macLinkName
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The name of the MAC link from which to delete the FCoE port.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B FCOE_DeletePort()
function deletes an FCoE port from the
specified MAC link.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FCOE_STATUS_ERROR_BUSY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBfcoe\fR driver is busy and cannot complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FCOE_STATUS_ERROR_MAC_LEN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MAC link name exceeds the maximum length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FCOE_STATUS_MAC_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The FCoE port was not found on the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FCOE_STATUS_OK
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libfcoe (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
