'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH efi_alloc_and_init 3EXT "8 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Extended Library Functions"
.SH NAME
efi_alloc_and_init, efi_alloc_and_read, efi_free, efi_write,
efi_use_whole_disk \- manipulate a disk's EFI Partition Table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lefi\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/vtoc.h>
#include <sys/efi_partition.h>

\fBint\fR \fBefi_alloc_and_init\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fInparts\fR, \fBdk_gpt_t **\fIvtoc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBefi_alloc_and_read\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBdk_gpt_t **\fIvtoc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBefi_free\fR(\fBdk_gpt_t *\fIvtoc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBefi_write\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBdk_gpt_t *\fIvtoc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBefi_use_whole_disk\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The " efi_alloc_and_init() " function initializes the " dk_gpt_t 
structure specified by
.I vtoc
in preparation for a call to
.BR efi_write() .
It calculates and initializes the
.BR efi_version ,
.BR efi_lbasize ,
.BR efi_nparts ,
.BR efi_first_u_lba ,
.BR efi_last_lba ,
and
.B efi_last_u_lba
members of this sturcture. The
caller can then set the
.B efi_nparts
member.
.sp
.LP
The
.B efi_alloc_and_read()
function allocates memory and returns the
partition table.
.sp
.LP
The
.B efi_free()
function frees the memory allocated by
.B efi_alloc_and_init()
and
.BR efi_alloc_and_read() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B efi_write()
function writes the EFI partition table.
.sp
.LP
The
.B efi_use_whole_disk()
function takes any space that is not
contained in the disk label and adds it to the last physically non-zero area
before the reserved slice (from slice 0 to slice 6 or unallocated space).
.sp
.LP
The
.I fd
argument refers to any slice on a raw disk, opened with
.BR O_NDELAY .
See
.BR open (2).
.sp
.LP
The
.I nparts
argument specifies the number of desired partitions.
.sp
.LP
The
.I vtoc
argument is a
.B dk_gpt_t
structure that describes an EFI
partition table and contains at least the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint_t          efi_version;     /* set to EFI_VERSION_CURRENT */
uint_t          efi_nparts;      /* number of partitions in efi_parts */
uint_t          efi_lbasize;     /* size of block in bytes */
diskaddr_t      efi_last_lba;    /* last block on the disk */
diskaddr_t      efi_first_u_lba; /* first block after labels */
diskaddr_t      efi_last_u_lba;  /* last block before backup labels */
struct dk_part  efi_parts[];     /* array of partitions */
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B efi_alloc_and_init()
returns 0. Otherwise
it returns
.B VT_EIO
if an I/O operation to the disk fails.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B efi_alloc_and_read()
returns a positive
integer indicating the slice index associated with the open file descriptor.
Otherwise, it returns a negative integer to indicate one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EIO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An I/O error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_ERROR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An unknown error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An EFI label was not found.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B efi_write()
returns 0. Otherwise, it
returns a negative integer to indicate one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EIO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An I/O error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_ERROR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An unknown error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The label contains incorrect data.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Upon successfully completion,
.B efi_use_whole_disk()
returns 0.
Otherwise, it returns a negative integer to indicate one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EIO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An I/O error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_ERROR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An unknown error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The label contains incorrect data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VT_ENOSPC
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Space out of label was not found.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The EFI label is used on disks with more than 1^32-1 blocks. For
compatibility reasons, the
.BR read_vtoc (3EXT)
and \fBwrite_vtoc()\fR
functions should be used on smaller disks. The application should attempt
the
.B read_vtoc()
or
.B write_vtoc()
call, check for an error of
.BR VT_ENOTSUP ,
then call the analogous EFI function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fmthard (1M),
.BR format (1M),
.BR prtvtoc (1M),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR libefi (3LIB),
.BR read_vtoc (3EXT),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR dkio (7I)
