'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rtld_db 3EXT "12 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Extended Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rtld_db, rd_delete, rd_errstr, rd_event_addr, rd_event_enable,
rd_event_getmsg, rd_init, rd_loadobj_iter, rd_log, rd_new, rd_objpad_enable,
rd_plt_resolution, rd_reset \- runtime linker debugging functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lrtld_db\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <proc_service.h>
#include <rtld_db.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBrd_delete\fR(\fBstruct rd_agent *\fIrdap\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBrd_errstr\fR(\fBrd_err_e\fR \fIrderr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_event_addr\fR(\fBrd_agent *\fIrdap\fR, \fBrd_notify_t *\fInotify\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_event_enable\fR(\fBstruct rd_agent *\fIrdap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIonoff\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_event_getmsg\fR(\fBstruct rd_agent *\fIrdap\fR,
     \fBrd_event_msg_t *\fImsg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_init\fR(\fBint\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtypedef int\fR \fBrl_iter_f\fR(\fBconst rd_loadobj_t *,\fR void *);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_loadobj_iter\fR(\fBrd_agent_t *\fIrap\fR, \fBrl_iter_f *\fIcb\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fIclnt_data\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBrd_log\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIonoff\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_agent_t *\fBrd_new\fR(\fBstruct ps_prochandle *\fIphp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_objpad_enable\fR(\fBstruct rd_agent *\fIrdap\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIpadsize\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_plt_resolution\fR(\fBrd_agent *\fIrdap\fR, \fBpaddr_t\fR \fIpc\fR,
     \fBlwpid_t\fR \fIlwpid\fR, \fBpaddr_t\fR \fIplt_base\fR, \fBrd_plt_info_t *\fIrpi\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrd_err_e\fR \fBrd_reset\fR(\fBstruct rd_agent *\fIrdap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B librtld_db
library provides support for monitoring and
manipulating runtime linking aspects of a program. There are at least two
processes involved,  the controlling process and one  or more target
processes. The controlling process is the
.B librtld_db
client that links
with
.B librtld_db
and uses
.B librtld_db
to inspect or modify runtime
linking aspects of one or more target processes. See the \fILinker and
Libraries Guide\fR for a full description of the runtime linker debugger
interface mechanism.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
To use
.BR librtld_db ,
applications need to implement the interfaces
documented in \fBps_pread\fR(3PROC) and \fBproc_service\fR(3PROC).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ld.so.1 (1),
.BR libc_db (3LIB),
.BR librtld_db (3LIB),
.BR proc_service (3PROC),
.BR ps_pread (3PROC),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I Linker and Libraries Guide
