'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sendfilev 3EXT "25 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Extended Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sendfilev \- send a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lsendfile\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/sendfile.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBsendfilev\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst struct sendfilevec *\fIvec\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIsfvcnt\fR, \fBsize_t *\fIxferred\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsendfilev()\fR function supports the following parameters:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfildes\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A file descriptor to a regular file or to a
.BR AF_NCA ,
.BR AF_INET ,
or
\fBAF_INET6\fR family type \fBSOCK_STREAM\fR socket that is open for
writing. For
.BR AF_NCA ,
the protocol type should be zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I vec
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An array of
.BR SENDFILEVEC_T ,
as defined in the \fBsendfilevec\fR
structure above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIsfvcnt\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The number of members in
.IR vec .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIxferred\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The total number of bytes written to
.BR out_fd .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsendfilev()\fR function attempts to write data from the \fIsfvcnt\fR
buffers specified by the members of \fIvec\fR array: \fBvec[0], vec[1], .\|.\|.
, vec[sfvcnt-1]\fR. The \fIfildes\fR argument is a file descriptor to a
regular file or to an
.BR AF_NCA ,
.BR AF_INET ,
or
.B AF_INET6
family
type
.B SOCK_STREAM
socket that is open for writing.
.sp
.LP
This function is analogous to
.BR writev (2),
but can read from both
buffers and file descriptors. Unlike
.BR writev() ,
in the case of multiple
writers to a file the effect of \fBsendfilev()\fR is not necessarily atomic;
the writes may be interleaved. Application-specific synchronization methods
must be employed if this causes problems.
.sp
.LP
The following is the \fBsendfilevec\fR structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sendfilevec {
        int     sfv_fd;         /* input fd */
        uint_t  sfv_flag;       /* Flags. see below */
        off_t   sfv_off;        /* offset to start reading from */
        size_t  sfv_len;        /* amount of data */
} sendfilevec_t;

#define SFV_FD_SELF     (-2)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
To send a file, open the file for reading and point \fBsfv_fd\fR to the
file descriptor returned as a result. See
.BR open (2).
\fBsfv_off\fR
should contain the offset within the file. \fBsfv_len\fR should have the
length of the file to be transferred.
.sp
.LP
The \fIxferred\fR argument is updated to record the total number of bytes
written to
.BR out_fd .
.sp
.LP
The \fBsfv_flag\fR field is reserved and should be set to zero.
.sp
.LP
To send data directly from the address space of the process, set
\fBsfv_fd\fR to
.BR SFV_FD_SELF .
\fBsfv_off\fR should point to the data,
with \fBsfv_len\fR containing the length of the buffer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBsendfilev()\fR function returns total
number of bytes written to
.BR out_fd .
Otherwise, it returns
.BR -1 ,
and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error. The \fIxferred\fR argument
contains the amount of data successfuly transferred, which can be used to
discover the error vector.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The process does not have appropriate privileges or one of the files
pointed by \fBsfv_fd\fR does not  have appropriate permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The implementation does not support the specified address family for
socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Mandatory file or record locking is set on either the file descriptor or
output file descriptor if it points at regular files.
.B O_NDELAY
or
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR is set, and there is a blocking record lock. An attempt has
been made to write to a stream that cannot accept data with the
\fBO_NDELAY\fR or the \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR flag set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid descriptor open for writing or an
\fBsfv_fd\fR is invalid or not open for reading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The
.I vec
argument points to an illegal address.
.sp
The \fIxferred\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A signal was caught during the write operation and no data was
transferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The \fIsfvcnt\fR argument was less than or equal to
.BR 0 .
One of the
\fBsfv_len\fR values in \fIvec\fR array was less than or equal to
.BR 0 ,
or greater than the file size. An \fBsfv_fd\fR is not seekable.
.sp
Fewer bytes were transferred than were requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
An I/O error occurred while accessing the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPIPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The \fIfildes\fR argument is a socket that has been shut down for
writing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPROTOTYPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The socket type is not supported.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBsendfilev()\fR function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following example sends 2 vectors, one of HEADER data and a file of
length 100 over
.BR sockfd .
\fBsockfd\fR is in a connected state, that is,
.BR socket() ,
.BR accept() ,
and
.B bind()
operation are complete.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <sys/sendfile.h>
\&.
\&.
\&.
int
main (int argc, char *argv[]){
  int sockfd;
  ssize_t ret;
  size_t xfer;
  struct sendfilevec vec[2];
    .
    .
    .
  vec[0].sfv_fd = SFV_FD_SELF;
  vec[0].sfv_flag = 0;
  vec[0].sfv_off = "HEADER_DATA";
  vec[0].sfv_len = strlen("HEADER_DATA");
  vec[1].sfv_fd = open("input_file",.... );
  vec[1].sfv_flag = 0;
  vec[1].sfv_off = 0;
  vec[1].sfv_len = 100;

  ret = sendfilev(sockfd, vec, 2, &xfer);
\&.
\&.
\&.
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR open (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR libsendfile (3LIB),
.BR sendfile (3EXT),
.BR socket (3SOCKET),
.BR attributes (5)
