'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SUNW_C_GetMechSession 3EXT "27 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Extended Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SUNW_C_GetMechSession, SUNW_C_KeyToObject \- PKCS#11 Cryptographic
Framework functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpkcs11\fR [ \fIlibrary\&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <security/cryptoki.h>
#include <security/pkcs11.h>

\fBCK_RV\fR \fBSUNW_C_GetMechSession\fR(\fBCK_MECHANISM_TYPE\fR \fImech\fR,
     \fBCK_SESSION_HANDLE_PTR\fR \fIhSession\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBCK_RV\fR \fBSUNW_C_KeyToObject\fR(\fBCK_SESSION_HANDLE\fR \fIhSession\fR,
     \fBCK_MECHANISM_TYPE\fR \fImech\fR, \fBconst void *\fIrawkey\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrawkey_len\fR,
     \fBCK_OBJECT_HANDLE_PTR\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions implement the RSA PKCS#11 v2.20 specification by using
plug-ins to provide the slots.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SUNW_C_GetMechSession()
function initializes the PKCS#11
cryptographic framework and performs all necessary calls to Standard PKCS#11
functions (see \fBlibpkcs11\fR(3LIB)) to create a session capable of
providing operations on the requested mechanism. It is not neccessary to
call
.B C_Initalize()
or
.B C_GetSlotList()
before the first call to
.BR SUNW_C_GetMechSession() .
.sp
.LP
If the
.B SUNW_C_GetMechSession()
function is called multiple times, it
will return a new session each time without re-initalizing the framework. If
it is unable to return a new session,
.B CKR_SESSION_COUNT
is returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.B C_CloseSession()
function should be called to release the session
when it is no longer required.
.sp
.LP
The
.B SUNW_C_KeyToObject()
function creates a key object for the
specified mechanism from the
.I rawkey
data. The object should be
destroyed with
.B C_DestroyObject()
when it is no longer required.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B SUNW_C_GetMechSession()
function returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_OK
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The function completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_SESSION_COUNT
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
No sessions are available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_ARGUMENTS_BAD
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
A null pointer was passed for the return session handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_MECHANISM_INVALID
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The requested mechanism is invalid or no available plug-in provider
supports it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_FUNCTION_FAILED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The function failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_GENERAL_ERROR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
A general error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B SUNW_C_KeyToObject()
function returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_OK
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The function completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_ARGUMENTS_BAD
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
A null pointer was passed for the session handle or the key material.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_MECHANISM_INVALID
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The requested mechanism is invalid or no available plug-in provider
supports it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_FUNCTION_FAILED
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The function failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CKR_GENERAL_ERROR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
A general error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The return values of each of the implemented functions are defined and
listed in the RSA PKCS#11 v2.20 specification. See
http://www.rsasecurity.com.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These functions are not part of the RSA PKCS#11 v2.20 specification. They
are not likely to exist on non-Solaris systems. They are provided as a
convenience to application programmers. Use of these functions will make the
application non-portable to other systems.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpkcs11 (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
http://www.rsasecurity.com
