'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsm_memseg_export_publish 3RSM "8 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Remote Shared Memory Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rsm_memseg_export_publish, rsm_memseg_export_unpublish,
rsm_memseg_export_republish \- allow or disallow a memory segment to be
imported by other nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_export_publish\fR(
     \fBrsm_memseg_export_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR,
     \fBrsm_memseg_id_t *\fIsegment_id\fR,
     \fBrsmapi_access_entry_t\fR \fIaccess_list\fR[],
     \fBuint_t\fR \fIaccess_list_length\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_export_unpublish\fR(
     \fBrsm_memseg_export_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_export_republish\fR(
     \fBrsm_memseg_export_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR,
     \fBrsmapi_access_entry_t\fR \fIaccess_list\fR[],
     \fBuint_t\fR \fIaccess_list_length\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR rsm_memseg_export_publish() ,
.BR rsm_memseg_export_unpublish() ,
and
.B rsm_memseg_export_republish()
functions allow or disallow a memory
segment to be imported by other nodes.
.sp
.LP
The rsm_memseg_export_publish(3RSM) function allows the export segment
specified by the
.I memseg
argument to be imported by other nodes. It
also assigns a unique segment identifier to the segment and defines the
access control list for the segment. The
.I segment_id
argument is a
pointer to an identifier which is unique on the publishing node. It is the
responsibility of the application to manage the assignment of unique segment
identifiers. The identifier can be optionally initialized to 0, in which
case the system will return a unique segment identifier value.  The
.I access_list
argument is composed of pairs of nodeid and access
permissions. For each nodeid specified in the list, the associated
read/write permissions are provided by three octal digits for owner, group,
and other, as for Solaris file permissions. In the access control each octal
digit may have the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
write access
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 4
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
read only access
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 6
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
read and write access
.RE

.sp
.LP
An access permissions value of 0624 specifies: (1) an importer with the
same uid as the exporter has read and write access; (2) an importer with the
same gid as the exporter has write access only; and (3) all other importers
have read access only. When an access control list is provided, nodes not
included in the list will be prevented from importing the segment.  However,
if the access list is
.I NULL
(this will require the length
.I access_list_length
to be specified as 0 as well), then no nodes will
be excluded from importing and the access permissions on all nodes will
equal the owner-group-other file creation permissions of the exporting
process. Corresponding to the
.I access_list
argument, the
.I access_list_length
argument specifies the number of entries in the
.I access_list
array.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_export_unpublish()
function disallows the export
segment specified by
.I memseg
from being imported. All the existing
import connections are forcibly disconnected.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_export_republish()
function changes the access control
list for the exported and published segment. Although the current import
connections remain unaffected by this call, new connections are constrained
by the new  access list.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR rsm_memseg_export_publish() ,
.BR rsm_memseg_export_unpublish() ,
and
.B rsm_memseg_export_republish()
functions can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_SEG_HNDL
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Invalid segment handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_NOT_CREATOR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Not creator of segment.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_export_publish()
and
.B rsm_memseg_export_republish()
functions can return the following
errors, with the exception that only
.B rsm_memseg_export_publish()
can
return the errors related to the segment identifier:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_SEGID_IN_USE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Segment identifier in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_RESERVED_SEGID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Segment identifier reserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_SEGID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid segment identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_ACL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid access control list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_SEG_ALREADY_PUBLISHED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Segment already published.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Insufficient resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_LOCKS_NOT_SUPPORTED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Locks not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_ADDR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bad address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_export_republish()
and
.B rsm_memseg_export_unpublish()
functions can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_SEG_NOT_PUBLISHED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Segment not published.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INTERRUPTED
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
The operation was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rsm_memseg_export_create (3RSM),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
An attempt to publish a segment might block until sufficient resources
become available.
