'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier 3RSM "8 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Remote Shared Memory Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier, rsm_memseg_import_destroy_barrier \- create
or destroy barrier for imported segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_import_init_barrier\fR(
     \fBrsm_memseg_import_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR, \fBrsm_barrier_type_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBrsmapi_barrier_t *\fIbarrier\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_import_destroy_barrier\fR(\fBrsmapi_barrier_t *\fIbarrier\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier()
function creates a barrier for
the imported segment specified by
.IR memseg .
The barrier type is
specified by the
.I type
.RB "argument. Currently, only" " RSM_BAR_DEFAULT"
is supported as a barrier type. A handle to the barrier is obtained through
the
.I barrier
argument and is used in subsequent barrier calls.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_destroy_barrier()
function deallocates all the
resources associated with the barrier.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier()
and
.B rsm_memseg_import_destroy_barrier()
functions can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_SEG_HNDL
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Invalid segment handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_BARRIER_PTR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Invalid barrier pointer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier()
function can return the
following errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE \fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rsm_memseg_import_open_barrier (3RSM),
.BR rsm_memseg_import_set_mode (3RSM),
.BR attributes (5)
