'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsm_create_localmemory_handle 3RSM "8 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Remote Shared Memory Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rsm_create_localmemory_handle, rsm_free_localmemory_handle \- create or free
local memory handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle\fR(
     \fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR,
     \fBrsm_localmemory_handle_t *\fIl_handle\fR,
     \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIlocal_vaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle\fR(
     \fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR,
     \fBrsm_localmemory_handle_t\fR \fIl_handle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_create_localmemory_handle()
and
\fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR functions are supporting functions for
.BR rsm_memseg_import_putv (3RSM)
and
.BR rsm_memseg_import_getv (3RSM).
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_create_localmemory_handle()
function creates a local memory
handle to be used in the I/O vector component of a scatter-gather list of
subsequent
.B rsm_memseg_import_putv()
and
.BR rsm_memseg_import_getv()
calls. The
.I handle
argument specifies the controller handle obtained
from
.BR rsm_get_controller "(3RSM). The"
.I l_handle
argument is a pointer
to the location for the function to return the local memory handle. The
\fIlocal_vaddr\fR argument specifies the local virtual address; it should be
aligned at a page boundary. The
.I length
argument specifies the length of
memory spanned by the handle.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR function unlocks the memory range
for the local handle specified by
.I l_handle
and releases the associated
system resources. The
.I handle
argument specifies the controller handle.
All handles created by a process are freed when the process exits, but the
process should call \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR as soon as possible
to free the system resources.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_create_localmemory_handle()
and
\fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR functions can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_CTLR_HNDL
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Invalid controller handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_LOCALMEM_HNDL
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Invalid local memory handle.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_create_localmemory_handle()
function can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_LENGTH
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Invalid length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_ADDRESS
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Invalid address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE \fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rsm_memseg_import_putv (3RSM),
.BR attributes (5)
