'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsm_memseg_import_set_mode 3RSM "8 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Remote Shared Memory Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rsm_memseg_import_set_mode, rsm_memseg_import_get_mode \- set or get mode
for barrier scoping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_import_set_mode\fR(\fBrsm_memseg_import_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR,
     \fBrsm_barrier_mode_t\fR \fImode\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_memseg_import_get_mode\fR(\fBrsm_memseg_import_handle_t\fR \fImemseg\fR,
     \fBrsm_barrier_mode_t *\fImode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_set_mode()
function provides support for
optional explicit barrier scoping in the functions described on the
.BR rsm_memseg_import_get (3RSM)
and
.BR rsm_memseg_import_put (3RSM)
manual pages.. The two valid barrier modes are
.B RSM_BARRIER_MODE_EXPLICIT
and
.BR RSM_BARRIER_MODE_IMPLICIT .
By
default, the barrier mode is set to
.BR RSM_BARRIER_MODE_IMPLICIT .
When
the mode is
.BR RSM_BARRIER_MODE_IMPLICIT ,
an implicit barrier open and
barrier close is applied to the put operation. Irrespective of the mode set,
the barrier must be initialized using the
.BR rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier (3RSM)
function before any barrier
operations, either implicit or explicit, are used.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_get_mode()
function obtains the current value
of the mode used for barrier scoping in put functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_memseg_import_set_mode()
and
.B rsm_memseg_import_get_mode()
functions can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_SEG_HNDL
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Invalid segment handle.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE \fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rsm_memseg_import_get (3RSM),
.BR rsm_memseg_import_init_barrier (3RSM),
.BR rsm_memseg_import_put (3RSM),
.BR attributes (5)
