'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rsm_get_interconnect_topology 3RSM "8 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Remote Shared Memory Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rsm_get_interconnect_topology, rsm_free_interconnect_topology \- get or
free interconnect topology
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_get_interconnect_topology\fR(\fBrsm_topology_t **\fItopology_data\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBrsm_free_interconnect_topology\fR(\fBrsm_topology_t *\fItopology_data\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The rsm_get_interconnect_topology(3RSM) and
.BR rsm_free_interconnect_topology (3RSM)
functions provide for access to
the interconnect controller and connection data. The key interconnect data
required for export and import operations includes the respective cluster
nodeids and the controller names. To facilitate applications in the
establishment of proper and efficient export and import policies, a
delineation of the interconnect topology is provided by this interface. The
data provided includes local nodeid, local controller name, its hardware
address, and remote connection specification for each local controller.  An
application component exporting memory can thus find the set of existing
local controllers and correctly assign controllers for the creation and
publishing of segments. Exported segments may also be efficiently
distributed over the set of controllers consistent with the hardware
interconnect and application software. An application component which is to
import memory must be informed of the segment id(s) and controller(s) used
in the exporting of memory, this needs to be done using some out-of-band
mechanism. The topology data structures are defined in the
.RB < rsmapi.h >
header.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_get_interconnect_topology()
returns a pointer to the topology
data in a location specified by the
.I topology_data
argument.
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_free_interconnect_topology()
frees the resources allocated
by
.BR rsm_get_interconnect_topology() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B rsm_get_interconnect_topology()
returns
0. Otherwise, an error value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B rsm_get_interconnect_topology()
function can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_TOPOLOGY_PTR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Invalid topology pointer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSMERR_BAD_ADDR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt
Bad address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE \fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
