'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH aio_req 9S "28 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
aio_req \- asynchronous I/O request structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/uio.h>
#include <sys/aio_req.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
An
.B aio_req
structure describes an asynchronous
.B I/O
request.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct uio*aio_uio;   /* uio structure describing the I/O request */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B aio_uio
member is a pointer to a
.BR uio "(9S) structure,"
describing the
.B I/O
transfer request.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR aread (9E),
.BR awrite (9E),
.BR aphysio (9F),
.BR uio (9S)
