'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ddi_fm_error 9S "13 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_fm_error \- I/O error status structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddifm.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A
.B ddi_fm_error_t
structure contains common data necessary for
.B I/O
error handling. A pointer to a
.B ddi_fm_error_t
structure is
passed to error handling callbacks where it can then be used in a call to
.BR pci_ereport_post() .
The same structure is also returned to callers of
.B ddi_fm_acc_err_get()
and \fBddi_fm_dma_err_get()\fR.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int                 fme_version;
uint64_t            fme_ena;
int                 fme_status;
int                 fme_flag;
ddi_acc_handle_t    fme_acc_handle;
ddi_dma_handle_t    fme_dma_handle;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B fme_version
is the current version of
.BR ddi_fm_error_t .
Valid
values for the version are:
.B DDI_FME_VER0
and
.BR DDI_FME_VER1 .
.sp
.LP
The
.B fme_ena
is the
.B FMA
event protocol Format 1 Error Numeric
Association (\fBENA\fR) for this error condition.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfme_flag\fR field is set to \fBDDI_FM_ERR_EXPECTED\fR if the error
is the result of a
.B DDI_ACC_CAUTIOUS
protected operation. In this case,
.B fme_acc_handle
is valid and the driver should check for and report
only errors not associated with the
.B DDI_ACC_CAUTIOUS
protected access
operation. This field can also be set to
.B DDI_FM_ERR_POKE
or
.B DDI_FM_ERR_PEEK
if the error is the result of a
.BR ddi_peek "(9F) or"
.BR ddi_poke (9F)
operation. The driver should handle these in a similar
way to
.BR DDI_FM_ERR_EXPECTED .
Otherwise,
.B ddi_flag
is set to
.B DDI_FM_ERR_UNEXPECTED
and the driver must perform the full range of
error handling tasks.
.sp
.LP
The
.B fme_status
indicates current status of an error handler callback
or resource handle:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FM_OK
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
No errors were detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FM_FATAL
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
An error which is considered fatal to the operational state of the system
was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FM_NONFATAL
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
An error which is not considered fatal to the operational state of the
system was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FM_UNKNOWN
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
An error was detected, but the driver was unable to determine the impact of
the error on the operational state of the system.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B fme_acc_handle
is the valid access handle associated with the
error that can be returned from
.BR pci_ereport_post()
.sp
.LP
The
.B fme_dma_handle
is the valid
.B DMA
handle associated with the
error that can be returned from
.BR pci_ereport_post()
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ddi_fm_acc_err_get (9F),
.BR ddi_fm_dma_err_get (9F),
.BR ddi_fm_handler_register (9F),
.BR ddi_peek (9F),
.BR ddi_poke (9F),
.BR pci_ereport_post (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
