'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fmodsw 9S "14 Nov 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
fmodsw \- STREAMS module declaration structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/conf.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B fmodsw
structure contains information for STREAMS modules. All
STREAMS modules must define a
.B fmodsw
structure.
.sp
.LP
.B f_name
must match
.B mi_idname
in the
.B module_info
structure.
See
.BR module_info (9S).
\fBf_name\fR should also match the module binary
name. (See WARNINGS.)
.sp
.LP
All modules must set the
.B f_flag
to
.B D_MP
to indicate that they
safely allow multiple threads of execution. See
.BR mt-streams (9F)
for
additional flags.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char              f_name[FMNAMESZ + 1];   /* module name */
struct streamtab  *f_str;                 /* streams information */
int               f_flag;                 /* flags */
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mt-streams (9F),
.BR modlstrmod (9S),
.BR module_info (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
If
.B f_name
does not match the module binary name, unexpected failures
can occur.
