'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH free_rtn 9S "13 Nov 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
free_rtn \- structure that specifies a driver's message-freeing routine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B free_rtn
structure is referenced by the
.B datab
structure.
When \fBfreeb\fR(9F) is called to free the message, the driver's
message-freeing routine (referenced through the
.B free_rtn
structure)
is called, with arguments, to free the data buffer.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void     (*free_func)()      /* user's freeing routine */
char     *free_arg           /* arguments to free_func() */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The  \fBfree_rtn\fR structure is defined as type  \fBfrtn_t\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR esballoc (9F),
.BR freeb (9F),
.BR datab (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
