'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gld_mac_info 9S "7 June 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
gld_mac_info \- Generic LAN Driver MAC info data structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/gld.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Generic LAN Driver (GLD) Media Access Control (MAC) information
.RB ( gld_mac_info )
structure is the main data interface between the
device-specific driver and GLD. It contains data required by GLD and a
pointer to an optional additional driver-specific information structure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B gld_mac_info
structure should be allocated using
.B gld_mac_alloc()
and deallocated using
.BR gld_mac_free() .
Drivers
can make no assumptions about the length of this structure, which might be
different in different releases of Solaris and/or GLD. Structure members
private to GLD, not documented here, should not be set or read by the
device-specific driver.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
caddr_t         gldm_private;              /* Driver private data */
int               (*gldm_reset)();         /* Reset device */
int               (*gldm_start)();         /* Start device */
int               (*gldm_stop)();          /* Stop device */
int               (*gldm_set_mac_addr)();  /* Set device phys addr */
int               (*gldm_set_multicast)(); /* Set/delete */
                                            /* multicast address */
int               (*gldm_set_promiscuous)();
                                            /* Set/reset promiscuous */
                                            /* mode*/
int               (*gldm_send)();          /* Transmit routine */
u_int             (*gldm_intr)();          /* Interrupt handler */
int               (*gldm_get_stats)();     /* Get device statistics */
int               (*gldm_ioctl)();         /* Driver-specific ioctls */
char             *gldm_ident;              /* Driver identity string */
uint32_t          gldm_type;               /* Device type */
uint32_t          gldm_minpkt;             /* Minimum packet size */
                                            /* accepted by driver */
uint32_t          gldm_maxpkt;             /* Maximum packet size */
                                            /* accepted by driver */
uint32_t          gldm_addrlen;            /* Physical address */
                                            /* length */
int32_t           gldm_saplen;             /* SAP length for */
                                            /* DL_INFO_ACK */
unsigned char    *gldm_broadcast_addr;     /* Physical broadcast */
                                            /* addr */
unsigned char    *gldm_vendor_addr;        /* Factory MAC address */
t_uscalar_t       gldm_ppa;                /* Physical Point of */
                                            /* Attachment (PPA) number */
dev_info_t       *gldm_devinfo;            /* Pointer to device's */
                                            /* dev_info node */
ddi_iblock_cookie_tgldm_cookie;            /* Device's interrupt */
                                            /* block cookie */
int               gldm_margin              /* accepted data beyond */
                                            /*gldm_maxpkt */
uint32_t          gldm_capabilities;       /* Device capabilities */
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Below is a description of the members of the
.B gld_mac_info
structure
that are visible to the device driver.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_private
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This structure member is private to the device-specific driver and is not
used or modified by GLD. Conventionally, this is used as a pointer to
private data, pointing to a driver-defined and driver-allocated per-instance
data structure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following group of structure members must be set by the driver before
calling
.BR gld_register() ,
and should not thereafter be modified by the
driver;
.B gld_register()
can use or cache the values of some of these
structure members, so changes made by the driver after calling
.B gld_register()
might cause unpredicted results.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_reset
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_start
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_stop
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_set_mac_addr
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_set_multicast
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_set_promiscuous
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_send
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_intr
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_get_stats
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_ioctl
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to driver entry point; can be
.IR NULL ;
see
.BR gld (9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_ident
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to a string containing a short description of the device. It is
used to identify the device in system messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_type
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The type of device the driver handles. The values currently supported by
GLD are
.B DL_ETHER
(IEEE 802.3 and Ethernet Bus),
.B DL_TPR
(IEEE
802.5 Token Passing Ring), and
.B DL_FDDI
(ISO 9314-2 Fibre Distributed
Data Interface). This structure member must be correctly set for GLD to
function properly.
.sp
Support for the DL_TPR and DL_FDDI media types is obsolete and may be
removed in a future release of Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_minpkt
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Minimum
.I "Service Data"
.I Unit
size \(em the minimum packet
size, not including the MAC header, that the device will transmit. This can
be zero if the device-specific driver can handle any required padding.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_maxpkt
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Maximum
.I "Service Data"
.I Unit
size \(em the maximum size of
packet, not including the MAC header, that can be transmitted by the device.
For Ethernet, this number is 1500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_addrlen
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The length in bytes of physical addresses handled by the device. For
Ethernet, Token Ring, and FDDI, the value of this structure member should be
6.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_saplen
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The length in bytes of the Service Access Point (SAP) address used by the
driver. For GLD-based drivers, this should always be set to -2, to indicate
that two-byte SAP values are supported and that the SAP appears
.I after
the physical address in a DLSAP address. See the description under ``Message
DL_INFO_ACK'' in the DLPI specification for more details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_broadcast_addr
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to an array of bytes of length
.B gldm_addrlen
containing the
broadcast address to be used for transmit. The driver must allocate space to
hold the broadcast address, fill it in with the appropriate value, and set
.B gldm_broadcast_addr
to point at it. For Ethernet, Token Ring, and
FDDI, the broadcast address is normally 0xFF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_vendor_addr
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to an array of bytes of length
.B gldm_addrlen
containing the
vendor-provided network physical address of the device. The driver must
allocate space to hold the address, fill it in with information read from
the device, and set
.B gldm_vendor_addr
to point at it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_ppa
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) number for this instance of the
device. Normally this should be set to the instance number, returned from
.BR ddi_get_instance (9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_devinfo
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Pointer to the
.B dev_info
node for this device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_cookie
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
The interrupt block cookie returned by
.BR ddi_get_iblock_cookie (9F),
.BR ddi_add_intr (9F),
.BR ddi_get_soft_iblock_cookie (9F),
or
.BR ddi_add_softintr (9F).
This must correspond to the device's receive
interrupt, from which
.B gld_recv()
is called.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_margin
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Drivers set this value to the amount of data in bytes that the device can
transmit beyond
.BR gldm_maxpkt .
For example, if an Ethernet device can
handle packets whose payload section is no greater than 1522 bytes and the
.B gldm_maxpkt
is set to 1500 (as is typical for Ethernet), then
.B gldm_margin
is set to 22. The registered
.B gldm_margin
value is
reported in acknowledgements of the DLIOCMARGININFO ioctl (see
.BR dlpi (7P)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B gldm_capabilities
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Bit-field of device capabilities. If the device is capable of reporting
media link state, the GLD_CAP_LINKSTATE bit should be set.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gld (7D),
.BR dlpi (7P),
.BR attach (9E),
.BR gld (9E),
.BR ddi_add_intr (9F),
.BR gld (9F),
.BR gld_stats (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
