'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hook_t 9S "1 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
hook_t \- callback structure for subscribing to netinfo events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/hook.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B hook_t
data structure defines a callback that is to be inserted
into a networking event. This data structure must be allocated with a call to
.B hook_alloc()
and released with a call to \fBhook_free()\fR.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
hook_func_t  h_func;      /* callback function to invoke */
char         *h_name;     /* unique name given to the hook */
int          h_flags;
hook_hint_t  h_hint;      /* insertion hint type */
uintptr_t    h_hintvalue; /* used with h_hint */
void         *h_arg;      /* value to pass into h_func */

typedef int (*hook_func_t)(net_event_t token, hook_data_t info,
              void *);
.fi
.in -2

.SS "HINT TYPES"
.sp
.LP
Hook hints are hints that are used at the time of insertion and are not rules
that enforce where a hook lives for its entire lifetime on an event. The valid
values for the
.B h_hint
field are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HH_NONE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Insert the hook wherever convenient.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HH_FIRST
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Place the hook first on the list of hooks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HH_LAST
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Place the hook last on the list of hooks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HH_BEFORE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Place the hook before another hook on the list of hooks. The value in
.B h_hintvalue
must be a pointer to the name of another hook.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HH_AFTER
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Place the hook after another hook on the list of hooks. The value in
.B h_hintvalue
must be a pointer to the name of another hook.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR netinfo (9F)
