'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH iovec 9S "11 Apr 1991" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
iovec \- data storage structure for I/O using uio
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/uio.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
An
.B iovec
structure describes a data storage area for transfer in a
.BR uio (9S)
structure.  Conceptually, it can be thought of as a base
address and length specification.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
caddr_t    iov_base;  /* base address of the data storage area */
                      /* represented by the iovec structure */
int        iov_len;   /* size of the data storage area in bytes */
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR uio (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
