'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH kstat_named 9S "4 Apr 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
kstat_named \- structure for named kstats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/kstat.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Named
.B kstats
are an array of name-value pairs. These pairs are kept
in the
.B kstat_named
structure. When a
.B kstat
is created by
.BR kstat_create (9F),
the driver specifies how many of these structures
will be allocated. The structures are returned as an array pointed to by the
.B ks_data
field.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
union {
          char                   c[16];
          long                   l;
          ulong_t                ul;
          longlong_t             ll;
          u_longlong_t           ull;
} value;  /* value of counter */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The only member exposed to drivers is the
.B value
member. This field is
a union of several data types. The driver must specify which type it will
use in the call to
.BR kstat_named_init() .
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kstat_create (9F),
.BR kstat_named_init (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
