'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH net_instance_t 9S "1 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
net_instance_t \- packet event structure passed through to hooks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B net_instance_t
data structure defines a collection of instances
to be called when relevant events happen within
.BR IP .
The value returned
by the
.B nin_create()
function is stored internally and passed back to
both the
.B nin_destroy()
and
.B nin_shutdown()
functions as the
second argument. The
.B netid_t
passed through to each function can be
used to uniquely identify each instance of
.BR IP .
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    char    *nin_name;
     void    *(*nin_create)(const netid_t);
     void    (*nin_destroy)(const netid_t, void *);
     void    (*nin_shutdown)(const netid_t, void *);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nin_name
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Name of the owner of the instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nin_create
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Function to be called when a new instance of
.B IP
is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nin_destroy
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Function to be called when an instance of
.B IP
is being destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nin_shutdown
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Function to be called when an instance of
.B IP
is being shutdown.
.B nin_shutdown()
is called before
.B nin_destroy()
is called.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR netinfo (9F),
.BR attributes (5)
