'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scsi_device 9S "19 Feb 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
scsi_device \- SCSI device structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scsi_device
structure stores common information about each SCSI
logical unit, including pointers to areas that contain both generic and
device specific information. There is one
.B scsi_device
structure for
each logical unit attached to the system. The host adapter driver
initializes part of this structure prior to
.BR probe "(9E) and destroys"
this structure after a probe failure or successful
.BR detach (9E).
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct scsi_address        sd_address; /* Routing info. */
dev_info_t                 *sd_dev;    /* Cross-ref. to */
                                       /* dev_info_t */
kmutex_t                   sd_mutex;   /* Mutex for this dev. */
struct scsi_inquiry        *sd_inq;    /* scsi_inquiry data struc. */
struct scsi_extended_sense *sd_sense;  /* Optional request */
                                       /* sense buffer ptr */
caddr_t                    sd_private; /* Target drivers
                                          private data */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.B sd_address
contains the routing information that the target driver
normally copies into a
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
structure using the collection of
.BR makecom (9F)
functions. The
.B SCSA
library routines use this
information to determine which host adapter,
.B SCSI
bus, and
target/logical unit number (lun) a command is intended for. This structure
is initialized by the host adapter driver.
.sp
.LP
.B sd_dev
is a pointer to the corresponding
.B dev_info
structure.
This pointer is initialized by the host adapter driver.
.sp
.LP
.B sd_mutex
is a mutual exclusion lock for this device. It is used to
serialize access to a device. The host adapter driver initializes this
mutex. See
.BR mutex (9F).
.sp
.LP
.B sd_inq
is initially
.I NULL
(zero). After executing
.BR scsi_probe (9F),
this field contains the inquiry data associated with
the particular device.
.sp
.LP
.B sd_sense
is initially
.I NULL
(zero). If the target driver wants
to use this field for storing
.B "REQUEST SENSE"
data, it should allocate
an
.BR scsi_extended_sense (9S)
buffer and set this field to the address of
this buffer.
.sp
.LP
.B sd_private
is reserved for the use of target drivers and should
generally be used to point to target specific data structures.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR detach (9E),
.BR probe (9E),
.BR makecom (9F),
.BR mutex (9F),
.BR scsi_probe (9F),
.BR scsi_extended_sense (9S),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
