'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH streamtab 9S "11 Apr 1991" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
streamtab \- STREAMS entity declaration structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each STREAMS driver or module must have a
.B streamtab
structure.
.sp
.LP
.B streamtab
is made up of
.B qinit
structures for both the read and
write queue portions of each module or driver. Multiplexing drivers require
both upper and lower
.B qinit
structures. The
.B qinit
structure
contains the entry points through which the module or driver routines are
called.
.sp
.LP
Normally, the read
.B QUEUE
contains the
.B open
and
.BR close
routines. Both the read and write queue can contain
.B put
and service
procedures.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct qinit    *st_rdinit;    /* read QUEUE */
struct qinit    *st_wrinit;    /* write QUEUE */
struct qinit    *st_muxrinit;  /* lower read QUEUE*/
struct qinit    *st_muxwinit;  /* lower write QUEUE*/
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR qinit (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
