'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH usb_cfg_descr 9S "5 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_cfg_descr \- USB configuration descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B usb_cfg_descr_t
configuration descriptor defines attributes of a
configuration. A configuration contains one or more interfaces. A
configuration descriptor acts as a header for the group of other descriptors
describing the subcomponents (for example, interfaces and endpoints) of a
configuration. Please refer to Section
.I 9.6.3
of the
.IR "USB 2.0"
specification. The
.I "USB 2.0"
specification is available at
.IR www.usb.org .
.sp
.LP
One or more configuration descriptors are retrieved from a USB device
during device enumeration. They can be accessed via
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F).
.sp
.LP
A configuration descriptor has the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint8_t         bLength                 Size of this descriptor
                                        in bytes.

uint8_t         bDescriptorType         Set to USB_DESCR_TYPE_CFG.

uint16_t        wTotalLength            Total length of data returned
                                        including this and all other
                                        descriptors in this configuration.

uint8_t         bNumInterfaces          Number of interfaces in this
                                        configuration.

uint8_t         bConfigurationValue     ID of this configuration
                                        (1-based).

uint8_t         iConfiguration          Index of optional configuration
                                        string. Valid if > 0.

uint8_t         bmAttributes            Configuration characteristics
                                        (See below).

uint8_t         bMaxPower               Maximum power consumption, in
                                        2mA units.

Configuration descriptors define the following bmAttributes:
     USB_CFG_ATTR_SELFPWR       -      Set if config not using bus power.
     USB_CFG_ATTR_REMOTE_WAKEUP -      Set if config supports rem wakeup.
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
_
AvailabilitySUNWusbu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR usb_get_alt_if (9F),
.BR usb_get_cfg (9F),
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F),
.BR usb_get_string_descr (9F),
.BR usb_parse_data (9F),
.BR usb_ctrl_request (9S),
.BR usb_dev_descr (9S),
.BR usb_dev_qlf_descr (9S),
.BR usb_ep_descr (9S),
.BR usb_if_descr (9S),
.BR usb_other_speed_cfg_descr (9S),
.BR usb_string_descr (9S)
