'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH usb_if_descr 9S "5 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_if_descr \- USB interface descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B usb_if_descr_t
interface descriptor defines attributes of an
interface. A configuration contains one or more interfaces. An interface
contains one or more endpoints.
.sp
.LP
Please refer to Section
.I 9.6.5
of the
.I "USB 2.0"
specification. The
.I USB 2.0
specification is available at
.IR www.usb.org .
.sp
.LP
One or more configuration descriptors are retrieved from a USB device
during device enumeration. They can be accessed via
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F).
.sp
.LP
A  interface descriptor has the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint8_t     bLength                 Size of this descriptor
                                    in bytes.

uint8_t     bDescriptorType         Set to USB_DESCR_TYPE_IF.

uint8_t     bInterfaceNumber        Interface number (0-based).

uint8_t     bAlternateSetting       Alternate setting number for
                                    this interface and its
                                    endpoints (0-based).

uint8_t     bNumEndpoints           Number of endpoints,
                                    excluding endpoint 0.

uint8_t     bInterfaceClass         Interface Class code
                                    (see below).

uint8_t     bInterfaceSubClass      Sub class code. (See USB 2.0
                                    specification of applicable
                                    interface class for information.)

uint8_t     bInterfaceProtocol      Protocol code.  (See USB 2.0
                                    specification of applicable
                                    interface class for information.)

uint8_t     iInterface              Index of optional string
                                    describing this interface
                                    Valid if > 0. Pass to
                                    usb_get_string_descr(9F) to
                                    retrieve string.

USB 2.0 specification interface descriptor bInterfaceClass field
values are as follows:

        USB_CLASS_APP           Application-specific interface class

        USB_CLASS_AUDIO         Audio interface class

        USB_CLASS_CCID          Chip/Smartcard interface class

        USB_CLASS_CDC_CTRL      CDC control interface class

        USB_CLASS_CDC_DATA      CDC data interface class

        USB_CLASS_SECURITY      Content security interface class

        USB_CLASS_DIAG          Diagnostic interface class

        USB_CLASS_HID           HID interface class

        USB_CLASS_HUB           HUB interface class

        USB_CLASS_MASS_STORAGE  Mass storage interface class

        USB_CLASS_PHYSICAL      Physical interface class

        USB_CLASS_PRINTER       Printer interface class

        USB_CLASS_VENDOR_SPEC   Vendor-specific interface class

        USB_CLASS_WIRELESS      Wireless interface class


.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
_
AvailabilitySUNWusbu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR usb_get_alt_if (9F),
.BR usb_get_cfg (9F),
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F),
.BR usb_get_string_descr (9F),
.BR usb_parse_data (9F),
.BR usb_cfg_descr (9S),
.BR usb_ctrl_request (9S),
.BR usb_dev_descr (9S),
.BR usb_dev_qlf_descr (9S),
.BR usb_ep_descr (9S),
.BR usb_other_speed_cfg_descr (9S),
.BR usb_string_descr (9S)
