'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH usb_dev_qlf_descr 9S "5 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_dev_qlf_descr \- USB device qualifier descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The device qualifier descriptor
.B usb_dev_qlf_descr_t
defines how
fields of a high speed device's device descriptor would look if that device
is run at a different speed.  If a high-speed device is running currently at
full/high speed, fields of this descriptor reflect how device descriptor
fields would look if speed was changed to high/full. Please refer to section
.I 9.6.2
of the
.I "USB 2.0"
specification. The
.I "USB 2.0"
specification is available at
.IR www.usb.org .
.sp
.LP
A device descriptor contains the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint8_t     bLength             Size of this descriptor.

uint8_t     bDescriptorType     Set to USB_DESCR_TYPE_DEV_QLF.

uint16_t    bcdUSB              USB specification release
                                number in binary coded decimal.

uint8_t     bDeviceClass        Device class code.
                                (See \fBusb_dev_descr(9s)\fR.)

uint8_t     bDeviceSubClass     Device subclass code.(See
                                USB 2.0 specification of
                                applicable device class for
                                information.)

uint8_t     bDeviceProtocol     Protocol code.(See
                                USB 2.0 specification of
                                applicable device class for
                                information.)

uint8_t     bMaxPacketSize0     Maximum packet size of
                                endpoint 0.

uint8_t     bNumConfigurations  Number of available
                                configurations.

uint8_t     bReserved           Reserved.
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
_
AvailabilitySUNWusbu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR usb_get_alt_if (9F),
.BR usb_get_cfg (9F),
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F),
.BR usb_get_string_descr (9F).
.BR usb_parse_data (9F),
.BR usb_ctrl_request (9S),
.BR usb_cfg_descr (9S),
.BR usb_dev_descr (9S),
.BR usb_ep_descr (9S),
.BR usb_if_descr (9S),
.BR usb_other_speed_cfg_descr (9S),
.BR usb_string_descr (9S)
