'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH usb_string_descr 9S "5 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_string_descr \- USB string descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B usb_string_descr_t
string descriptor defines the attributes of a
string, including size and Unicode language ID.  Other USB descriptors may
have string descriptor index fields which refer to specific string
descriptors retrieved as part of a device's configuration.
.sp
.LP
Please refer to Section
.I 9.6.7
of the
.I "USB 2.0"
specification. The
.I USB 2.0
specification is available at
.IR www.usb.org .
.sp
.LP
A  string descriptor has the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint8_t       bLength                Size of this descriptor,
                                     in bytes.

uint8_t       bDescriptorType        Set to USB_DESCR_TYPE_STRING.

uint16_t      bString[1];            Variable length Unicode encoded
                                     string.
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
_
AvailabilitySUNWusbu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5),
.BR usb_get_alt_if (9F),
.BR usb_get_cfg (9F),
.BR usb_get_dev_data (9F),
.BR usb_get_string_descr (9F),
.BR usb_parse_data (9F),
.BR usb_ctrl_request (9S)
