'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH admin 4 "20 Dec 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
admin \- installation defaults file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B admin
is a generic name for an
.B ASCII
file that defines default
installation actions by assigning values to installation parameters. For
example, it allows administrators to define how to proceed when the package
being installed already exists on the system.
.sp
.LP
.B /var/sadm/install/admin/default
is the default
.B admin
file delivered
with this release. The default file is not writable, so to assign values
different from this file, create a new
.B admin
file. There are no naming
restrictions for
.B admin
files. Name the file when installing a package with
the
.B -a
option of \fBpkgadd\fR(1M). If the
.B -a
option is not used, the
default
.B admin
file is used.
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the
.B admin
file is a line that establishes the value of a
parameter in the following form:
.sp
.LP
\fIparam\fB=\fIvalue\fR
.sp
.LP
All of the parameters listed below can be defined in an
.B admin
file, but
it is not required to assign values to all of these. If a value is not assigned,
.BR pkgadd (1M)
asks the installer how to proceed.
.sp
.LP
The valid parameters and their possible values are shown below except as noted.
They can be specified in any order. Any of these parameters (except the
.B mail
and
.B proxy
parameters) can be assigned the value
.BR ask ,
which means that, when the parameter is reached during the installation
sequence, the installer is notified and asked to supply instructions (see
.BR NOTES ).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B basedir
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Indicates the base directory where relocatable packages are to be installed. If
there is no
.B basedir
entry in the file, the installer will be prompted for
a path name, as if the file contained the entry
.BR basedir=ask .
This
parameter can also be set to
.B default
(entry is
.BR basedir=default ).
In
this instance, the package is installed into the base directory specified by the
.B BASEDIR
parameter in the
.BR pkginfo (4)
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B mail
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Defines a list of users to whom mail should be sent following installation of a
package. If the list is empty, no mail is sent. If the parameter is not present
in the
.B admin
file, the default value of
.B root
.RB "is used. The" " ask"
value cannot be used with this parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B runlevel
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Indicates resolution if the run level is not correct for the installation or
removal of a package. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not check for run level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if run level is not met.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B conflict
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Specifies what to do if an installation expects to overwrite a previously
installed file, thus creating a conflict between packages. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Do not check for conflict; files in conflict will be overwritten.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Abort installation if conflict is detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nochange
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Override installation of conflicting files; they will not be installed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B setuid
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Checks for executables which will have setuid or setgid bits enabled after
installation. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Do not check for setuid executables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Abort installation if setuid processes are detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nochange
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Override installation of setuid processes; processes will be installed without
setuid bits enabled.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B action
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Determines if action scripts provided by package developers contain possible
security impact. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Ignore security impact of action scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if action scripts may have a negative security impact.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B partial
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Checks to see if a version of the package is already partially installed on the
system. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not check for a partially installed package.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if a partially installed package exists.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B instance
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Determines how to handle installation if a previous version of the package
(including a partially installed instance) already exists. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Exit without installing if an instance of the package already exists (does not
overwrite existing packages).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B overwrite
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Overwrite an existing package if only one instance exists. If there is more
than one instance, but only one has the same architecture, it overwrites that
instance. Otherwise, the installer is prompted with existing instances and asked
which to overwrite.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B unique
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Do not overwrite an existing instance of a package. Instead, a new instance of
the package is created. The new instance will be assigned the next available
instance identifier.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B idepend
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Controls resolution if the package to be installed depends on other packages
and if other packages depend on the one to be installed. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not check package dependencies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if package dependencies are not met.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rdepend
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Controls resolution if other packages depend on the package to be removed. Also
determines behavior if registered products components to be removed. See
.BR libwsreg (3LIB)
and \fBprodreg\fR(1M) for a definition of product
components. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not check package or product dependencies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort removal if package or product dependencies are not met.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B space
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Controls resolution if disk space requirements for package are not met. Options
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not check space requirements (installation fails if it runs out of space).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if space requirements are not met.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B authentication
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Controls resolution when a datastream package with signature is to be
installed. Options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B nocheck
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Do not verify package signature. This also disables the use of the Online
Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) to validate the package's signing
certificate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B quit
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Abort installation if package signature cannot be verified.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B networktimeout
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Number of seconds to wait before giving up a network connection when
downloading a package. This entry must be a positive integer. If not present,
the default value of 60 is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B networkretries
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Number of times to retry a failed network connection when downloading a
package. This entry must be a positive integer. If not present, the default
value of 5 is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B keystore
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Location of trusted certificates used when downloading packages over SSL and
when verifying signatures on packages. This is the base directory of the
certificate location for trusted certificates used when validating digital
signatures on packages. For example, if this setting is
.BR /var/sadm/security ,
then
.B pkgadd
will use
.BR /var/sadm/security/pkgadd/truststore ,
then
.B /var/sadm/security/truststore
when searching for trusted certificates. See
.B KEYSTORE LOCATIONS
and
.B "KEYSTORE AND CERTIFICATE FORMATS"
in
.BR pkgadd (1M)
for details on certificate store format and usage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B proxy
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The default proxy to use when installing packages from the network. Currently,
only HTTP or HTTPS proxies are supported. If this field is blank or nonexistent,
then no proxy will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rscriptalt=root | noaccess
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Determines the user that will run request scripts. This parameter can have
either of the values described below. See \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) for details on the
conditions under which this parameter is useful.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B root
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Run request script as user
.BR install ,
if such a user exists, with the
privileges of that user. Otherwise, run script as user
.BR root ,
with UID
equal to 0 and with all/zone privileges. (See
.BR zones (5).)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B noaccess
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Run request script as user
.BR install ,
if such a user exists, with the
privileges of that user. Otherwise, run script as user
.BR noaccess ,
with the
basic privileges of the unprivileged user
.BR noaccess .
.RE

If this parameter is not present or has a null value, the user \fBnoaccess\fR
is assumed. Likewise, if this parameter is set to anything other than the values
described here, a warning is issued, and
.B noaccess
is assumed.
.B rscriptalt
is not present in the default
.B admin
file,
.BR /var/sadm/install/admin/default .
In this case, request scripts are run as
the user
.BR noaccess .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Default
.B admin
File
.sp
.LP
The default
.B admin
file, named
.BR default ,
is shipped with user-,
group-, and world-read privileges (444). Its contents are as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
mail=
instance=unique
partial=ask
runlevel=ask
idepend=ask
rdepend=ask
space=ask
setuid=ask
conflict=ask
action=ask
basedir=default
authentication=quit
networktimeout=10
networkretries=3
keystore=/var/sadm/security
proxy=
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Sample
.B admin
file.
.sp
.LP
Below is a sample
.B admin
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
basedir=default
runlevel=quit
conflict=quit
setuid=quit
action=quit
partial=quit
instance=unique
idepend=quit
rdepend=quit
space=quit
authentication=quit
networktimeout=10
networkretries=5
keystore=/opt/certs
proxy=syrinx.eng.example.com:8080
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
The default
.B admin
file is consulted during package installation when no
other
.B admin
file is specified.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/sadm/install/admin/default
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default
.B admin
file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWpkgcmdsr
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR prodreg (1M),
.BR libwsreg (3LIB),
.BR pkginfo (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR zones (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The value
.B ask
should not be defined in an
.B admin
file that will be
used for non-interactive installation (because, by definition, there is no
installer interaction). Doing so causes installation to fail at the point when
input is needed.
