'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audit_event 4 "26 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
audit_event \- audit event definition and class mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/audit_event\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/audit_event\fR is a user-configurable ASCII system file
that stores event definitions used in the audit system. As part of this
definition, each event is mapped to one or more of the audit classes defined
in
.BR audit_class (4).
See
.BR audit_control (4)
and
.BR audit_user (4)
for information about changing the preselection of audit classes in the
audit system. Programs can use the
.BR getauevent (3BSM)
routines to access
audit event information.
.sp
.LP
The fields for each event entry are separated by colons. Each event is
separated from the next by a NEWLINE.Each entry in the audit_event file has
the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fInumber\fR:\fIname\fR:\fIdescription\fR:\fIflags\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I number
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Event number.
.sp
Event number ranges are assigned as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reserved as an invalid event number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1-2047
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reserved for the Solaris Kernel events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 2048-32767
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Reserved for the Solaris TCB programs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 32768-65535
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Available for third party TCB applications.
.sp
System administrators must
.B not
add, delete, or modify (except to
change the class mapping), events with an event number less than
.BR 32768 .
These events are reserved by the system.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Event name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I description
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Event description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIflags\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Flags specifying classes to which the event is mapped. Classes are comma
separated, without spaces.
.sp
Obsolete events are commonly assigned to the special class
.BR no
(invalid) to indicate they are no longer generated. Obsolete events are
retained to process old audit trail files. Other events which are not
obsolete may also be assigned to the
.B no
class.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using the \fBaudit_event\fR File
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of some
.B audit_event
file entries:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
7:AUE_EXEC:exec(2):ps,ex
79:AUE_OPEN_WTC:open(2) - write,creat,trunc:fc,fd,fw
6152:AUE_login:login - local:lo
6153:AUE_logout:logout:lo
6154:AUE_telnet:login - telnet:lo
6155:AUE_rlogin:login - rlogin:lo
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability  See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The file format stability is Committed. The file content is Uncommitted.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_event
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR getauevent (3BSM),
.BR audit_class (4),
.BR audit_control (4),
.BR audit_user (4)
.sp
.LP
Part\ VII, \fISolaris Auditing,\fR in \fISystem Administration Guide:
Security Services\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This functionality is available only if  Solaris Auditing has been enabled.
See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more information.
