'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH audit_class 4 "26 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
audit_class \- audit class definitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/audit_class\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/security/audit_class
is a user-configurable ASCII system file that
stores class definitions used in the audit system. Audit events in
.BR audit_event (4)
are mapped to one or more of the defined audit classes.
.B audit_event
can be updated in conjunction with changes to
.BR audit_class .
See
.BR audit_control (4)
and
.BR audit_user (4)
for
information about changing the preselection of audit classes in the audit
system. Programs can use the
.BR getauclassent (3BSM)
routines to access
audit class information.
.sp
.LP
The fields for each class entry are separated by colons. Each class entry is
a bitmap and is separated from each other by a newline.
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the
.B audit_class
file has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fImask\fR:\fIname\fR:\fIdescription\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mask
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
class mask
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I name
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
class name
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I description
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
class description
.RE

.sp
.LP
Each class is represented as a bit in the class mask which is an unsigned
integer. Thus, there are 32 different classes available. Meta-classes can also
be defined. These are supersets composed of multiple base classes, and thus
will have more than 1 bit in its mask. See Examples. Two special meta-classes
are also pre-defined:
.BR all ,
and
.BR no .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Represents a conjunction of all allowed classes, and is provided as a
shorthand method of specifying all classes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Is the invalid class, and any event mapped solely to this class will not be
audited. Turning auditing on to the
.B all
meta class will not cause events
mapped solely to the
.B no
class to be written to the audit trail. This
class is also used to map obsolete events which are no longer generated.
Obsolete events are retained to process old audit trails files.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using an
.B audit_class
File
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of an
.B audit_class
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
0x00000000:no:invalid class
0x00000001:fr:file read
0x00000002:fw:file write
0x00000004:fa:file attribute access
0x00000008:fm:file attribute modify
0x00000010:fc:file create
0x00000020:fd:file delete
0x00000040:cl:file close
0x00000100:nt:network
0x00000200:ip:ipc
0x00000400:na:non-attribute
0x00001000:lo:login or logout
0x00004000:ap:application
0x000f0000:ad:old administrative (meta-class)
0x00070000:am:administrative (meta-class)
0x00010000:ss:change system state
0x00020000:as:system-wide administration
0x00040000:ua:user administration
0x00080000:aa:audit utilization
0x00300000:pc:process (meta-class)
0x00100000:ps:process start/stop
0x00200000:pm:process modify
0x20000000:io:ioctl
0x40000000:ex:exec
0x80000000:ot:other
0xffffffff:all:all classes (meta-class)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/security/audit_class
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability  See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The file format stability is Committed. The file content is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR bsmconv (1M),
.BR au_preselect (3BSM),
.BR getauclassent (3BSM),
.BR audit_control (4),
.BR audit_event (4),
.BR audit_user (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Part\ VII, \fISolaris Auditing,\fR in \fISystem Administration Guide:
Security Services\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
It is possible to deliberately turn on the
.B no
class in the kernel, in
which case the audit trail will be flooded with records for the audit event
.BR AUE_NULL .
.sp
.LP
This functionality is available only if  Solaris Auditing has been enabled.
See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more information.
