'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH cdtoc 4 "14 Sept 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
cdtoc \- CD-ROM table of contents file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The table of contents file,
.BR \&.cdtoc ,
is an
.B ASCII
file that
describes the contents of a
.B CD-ROM
or other software distribution
media. It resides in the top-level directory of the file system on a slice
of a CD-ROM. It is independent of file system format, that is, the file
system on the slice can be either
.B UFS
or
.BR HSFS .
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the
.B \&.cdtoc
file is a line that establishes the value
of a parameter in the following form:
.sp
.LP
\fIPARAM\fB=\fIvalue\fR
.sp
.LP
Blank lines and comments (lines preceded by a pound-sign, ``#'') are also
allowed in the file. Parameters are grouped by product, with the beginning
of a product defined by a line of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fIPRODNAME\fB=\fIvalue\fR
.sp
.LP
Each product is expected to consist of one or more software packages that
are stored together in a subdirectory on the distribution media. There can
be any number of products described within the file. There is no required
order in which the parameters must be specified, except that the parameters
must be grouped by product and the
.I PRODNAME
parameter must appear
first in the list of parameters for each product specified. Each parameter
is described below. All of the parameters are required for each product.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I PRODNAME
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The full name of the product. This must be unique within the \fB\&.cdtoc\fR
file and is preferably unique across all possible products. This value may
contain white space. The length of this value is limited to
.B 256
.B ASCII
characters; other restrictions may apply (see below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I PRODVERS
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The version of the product. The value can contain any combination of
letters, numbers, or other characters. This value may contain white space.
The length of this value is limited to
.B "256 ASCII"
characters;
other restrictions may apply (see below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I PRODDIR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The name of the top-level directory containing the product. This name
should be relative to the top-level directory of the distribution media, for
example,
.BR Solaris_2.6/Product .
The number of path components in the
name is limited only by the system's maximum path name length, which is 1024
.B ASCII
characters. Any single component is limited to
.B 256
.B ASCII
characters. This value cannot contain white space.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The lengths of the values of
.I PRODNAME
and
.I PRODVERS
are further
constrained by the fact that the initial install programs concatenate these
values to produce the full product name. For unbundled products the combined
length of the values of
.I PRODNAME
and
.I PRODVERS
must not exceed
.B 256 ASCII
characters.
.sp
.LP
When you install
.B OS
services with Solstice Host Manager, directories
for diskless clients are created by constructing names derived from a
concatenation of the values of
.IR PRODNAME ,
.IR PRODVERS ,
and client
architecture, for example,
.BR /export/exec/Solaris_2.\fIx\fR_sparc.all/usr/platform .
The length of the component containing the product name and version must
not exceed
.B "256 ASCII"
characters. Thus, for products
corresponding to bundled
.B OS
releases (for example, Solaris 2.4), the
values of
.I PRODNAME
and
.I PRODVERS
are effectively restricted to
lengths much less than
.BR 256 .
.sp
.LP
The initial install programs use the value of the
.I PRODDIR
macro in
the \fB\&.cdtoc\fR file to indicate where packages can be found.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Sample of \fB\&.cdtoc\fR file.
.sp
.LP
Here is a sample \fB\&.cdtoc\fR file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf

        #
        # .cdtoc file -- Online product family CD
        #
        PRODNAME=Online DiskSuite
        PRODVERS=2.0
        PRODDIR=Online_DiskSuite_2.0
        #
        PRODNAME=Online Backup
        PRODVERS=2.0
        PRODDIR=Online_Backup_2.0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example corresponds to the following directory layout on a
.B CD-ROM
partition:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
        /.cdtoc
        /Online_DiskSuite_2.0
              ./SUNWmddr.c
              ./SUNWmddr.m
              ./SUNWmddu
        /Online_Backup_2.0
              ./SUNWhsm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The bundled release of Solaris 2.6 includes the following \fB\&.cdtoc\fR
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
        PRODNAME=Solaris
        PRODVERS=2.6
        PRODDIR=Solaris_2.6/Product
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This file corresponds to the following directory layout on slice 0 of the
Solaris 2.6 product
.BR CD :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
        /.cdtoc
        /Solaris_2.6/Product
             ./SUNWaccr
             ./SUNWaccu
             ./SUNWadmap
             .
             .
             .
             ./SUNWutool
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR clustertoc (4),
.BR packagetoc (4),
.BR pkginfo (4)
