'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH contents 4 "20 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
contents \- list of files and associated packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/var/sadm/install/contents\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The file
.B /var/sadm/install/contents
is a source of information about
the packages installed on the system. This file must never be edited
directly. Always use the package and patch commands (see SEE ALSO) to make
changes to the
.B contents
file.
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the
.B contents
file is a single line. Fields in each
entry are separated by a single space character.
.sp
.LP
Two major styles of entries exist, old style and new style. The following
is the format of an old-style entry:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIftype\fR \fIclass\fR \fIpath\fR \fIpackage(s)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following is the general format of a new-style entry:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIpath\fR[=\fIrpath\fR] \fIftype\fR \fIclass\fR [\fIftype-optional-fields\fR] \fIpackage(s)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
New-style entries differ for each
.BR ftype .
The
.B ftype
designates
the entry type, as specified in
.BR pkgmap (4).
The format for new-style
entries, for each
.BR ftype ,
is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ftype s: \fIpath\fR=\fIrpath\fR s \fIclass\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype l: \fIpath\fR l \fIclass\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype d: \fIpath\fR d \fIclass\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIpackage(s)\fR
ftype b: \fIpath\fR b \fIclass\fR \fImajor\fR \fIminor\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype c: \fIpath\fR c \fIclass\fR \fImajor\fR \fIminor\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype f: \fIpath\fR f \fIclass\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIsize\fR \fIcksum\fR \fImodtime\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype x: \fIpath\fR x \fIclass\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype v: \fIpath\fR v \fIclass\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIsize\fR \fIcksum\fR \fImodtime\fR \fIpackage\fR
ftype e: \fIpath\fR e \fIclass\fR \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR \fIsize\fR \fIcksum\fR \fImodtime\fR \fIpackage\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A significant distinction between old- and new-style entries is that the
former do not begin with a slash (/) character, while the latter (new-style)
always do. For example, the following are old-style entries:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
d none /dev SUNWcsd
e passwd /etc/passwd SUNWcsr
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following are new-style entries:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev d none 0755 root sys SUNWcsr SUNWcsd
/etc/passwd e passwd 0644 root sys 580 48299 1077177419 SUNWcsr
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following are the descriptions of the fields in both old- and new-style
entries.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I path
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The absolute path of the node being described. For
.B "ftype s"
(indicating a symbolic link) this is the indirect pointer (link) name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rpath
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The relative path to the real file or linked-to directory name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ftype
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A one-character field that indicates the entry type (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I class
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The installation class to which the file belongs (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I package
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The package associated with this entry. For
.B "ftype d"
(directory)
more than one package can be present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mode
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The octal mode of the file (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I owner
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The owner of the file (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I group
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The group to which the file belongs (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I major
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The major device number (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I minor
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The minor device number (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I size
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The actual size of the file in bytes as reported by sum (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cksum
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The checksum of the file contents (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I modtime
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The time of last modification (see
.BR pkgmap (4)).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR patchadd (1M),
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR pkgadm (1M),
.BR pkgchk (1M),
.BR pkgmap (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
As shown above, the interface stability of
.B /var/sadm/install/contents
is Unstable (see
.BR attributes (5)).
It is common practice to use this
file in a read-only manner to determine which files belong to which packages
installed on a system. While this file has been present for many releases of
the Solaris operating system, it might not be present in future releases.
The fully supported way to obtain information from the installed package
database is through
.BR pkgchk "(1M). It is highly recommended that you use"
.B pkgchk
rather than relying on the
.B contents
file.
