'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH crypt.conf 4 "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
crypt.conf \- configuration file for pluggable crypt modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/etc/security/crypt.conf
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B crypt.conf
is the configuration file for the pluggable crypt
architecture. Each crypt module must provide a function to generate a
password hash, \fBcrypt_genhash_impl\fR(3C), and a function to generate the
salt,
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C).
.sp
.LP
There must be at least one entry in
.B crypt.conf
with the same name as
is stored in the
.B crypt_algorithm_magic
symbol of the module. The
documentation provided with the module should list this name.
.sp
.LP
The
.B module_path
field specifies the path name to a shared library
object that implements
.BR crypt_genhash_impl() ,
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl() ,
and
.BR crypt_algorithm_magic .
If the path
name is not absolute, it is assumed to be relative to
.BR /usr/lib/security/$ISA .
If the path name contains the
.BR $ISA
token, the token is replaced by an implementation-defined directory name
that defines the path relative to the calling program's instruction set
architecture.
.sp
.LP
The
.B params
field is used to pass module-specific options to the
shared objects. See
.BR crypt_genhash_impl (3C)
and
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C).
It is the responsibility of the module to
parse and interpret the options.  The
.B params
field can be used by the
modules to turn on debugging or to pass any module-specific parameters that
control the output of the hashing algorithm.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Provide compatibility for md5crypt-generated passwords.
.sp
.LP
The default configuration preserves previous Solaris behavior while adding
compatibility for md5crypt-generated passwords as provided on some BSD and
Linux systems.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# crypt.conf
#
1 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_bsdmd5.so
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Use md5crypt to demonstrate compatibility with BSD- and
Linux-based systems.
.sp
.LP
The following example lists 4 algorithms and demonstrates how compatibility
with BSD- and Linux-based systems using md5crypt is made available, using
the algorithm names 1 and 2.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# crypt.conf
#
md5 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_md5.so
rot13 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_rot13.so

# For *BSD/Linux compatibilty
# 1 is md5,  2 is Blowfish
1 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_bsdmd5.so
2 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_bsdbf.so
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3C),
.BR crypt_genhash_impl (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt (3C),
.BR crypt_gensalt_impl (3C),
.BR getpassphrase (3C),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR crypt_unix (5)
