'\" te
.\" This manual page is dervied from documentation obtained from David Zeuthen.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH fdi 4 "5 Sept 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
fdi \- HAL device information file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/usr/share/lib/xml/dtd/fdi.dtd.1
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The hardware abstraction layer facility, described in
.BR hal (5),
uses an
\fBXML\fR-based file format to merge arbitrary properties onto device
objects. The way device information files works is that once all physical
properties are merged onto a device object, it is tried against the set of
installed device information files. Device information files are used for
both merging facts and policy settings for devices.
.sp
.LP
Each device information file has a number of match directives that are
tested against the properties of the device object. The directives have the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<match key="property" [string|int|bool|..]="value">
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If all the match directives pass, then the device information can include
the following property directives in the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<[merge|append|prepend] key="property" type="[string|int|bool|..]">
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
These directives are used to merge new properties or append to existing
properties on the device object. Any previously property stemming from
device detection can be overridden by a device information file.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR match ,
.BR merge ,
.BR append ,
and
.B prepend
directives
require that the key attribute be either a property name on the device
object in question or a path to a property on another device object. The
path to a property is expressed either through direct specification of the
.BR UDI ,
such as \fB/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/computer:foo.bar\fR or
through indirect references such as "\fB@info.parent:baz\fR", meaning that
the device object specified by the
.B UDI
in the string property
"\fBinfo.parent\fR" should be used to query the property "\fBbaz\fR". It is
also possible to use multiple indirections. For example, for a volume on a
\fBUSB\fR memory stick, the indirection
"\fB@block.storage_device:@storage.physical_device:usb.vendor_id\fR"
references the "\fBusb.vendor_id\fR" property on the device object
representing the
.B USB
interface.
.sp
.LP
When the property to match has been determined, the following attributes
can be used within the "\fBmatch\fR" tag:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B string
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Match a string property. For example, <match key= "foo.bar" string="baz">
matches only if "\fBfoo.bar\fR" is a string property assuming the value
"\fBbaz\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B int
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Match an integer property
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uint64
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Match property with the 64-bit unsigned type
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bool
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Match a boolean property
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B double
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Match a property of type double
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B exists
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Used as <match key="foo.bar" exists="true">. This attribute can be used
with "true" and "false", respectively to match when a property exists or
does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B empty
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
This attribute can only be used on string properties with "true" and
"false". The semantics for "true" is to match only when the string is
non-empty. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B is_absolute_path
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Matches only when a string property represents an absolute path (the path
does not have to exist). This attribute can be can be used with "true" or
"false".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B is_ascii
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Matches only when a string property contains
.B ASCII
characters. This
attribute can be used with "true" or "false".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B compare_lt
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
This attribute can be used with
.BR int ,
.BR uint64 ,
\fBdouble\fR and
\fBstring\fR properties to compare with a constant. It matches when the
given property is less than the given constant using the default ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B compare_le
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Similar to
.BR compare_lt ,
but matches when the given property is less
than or equal than the given constant using the default ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B compare_gt
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Similar to
.BR compare_lt ,
but matches when the given property is greater
than the given constant using the default ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Similar to
.BR compare_lt ,
but matches when the given property is greater
than or equal than the given constant using the default ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
This attribute can only be used with
.B string
and
.B strlist
(string
list). For a string key, this matches when the property contains the given
(sub)string. For a string list, this matches if the given string matches a
item in the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B contains_ncase
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Similar to
.BR contains ,
but the property and the given key are converted
to lowercase before it is checked.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR merge ,
.BR append ,
and
.B prepend
directives all require the
attribute type which specifies what is to be merged. The following values
are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B string
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The value is copied to the property. For example, <merge key="foo bar"
type="string"> baz</merege> merges the value "baz" into the property
"foo.bar".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B strlist
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
For
.BR merge ,
the value is copied to the property and the current
property is overwritten. For
.B append
and
.BR prepend ,
the value is
appended or prepended to the list as a new item.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bool
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
This attribute can merge the values "true" or "false"
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B int
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Merges an integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B uint64
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Merges an unsigned 64-bit integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B double
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Merges a double precision floating point number
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B copy_property
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Copies the value of a given property; supports paths with direct and
indirect UDI's. For example, <merge key="foo.bar"
type="copy_property">@info.parent:baz.bat</merge> merges the value of the
property "baz.bat" on the device object with the \fBUDI\fR from the property
"info.parent" into the property "foo.bar" on the device object being
processed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B remove
directive requires only a key and can be used with all
keys. For
.BR strlist ,
there is also a special syntax to remove a item
from the string list. For example, to remove item "bla" from property
"foo.bar", use the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<remove key="foo.bar" type="strlist">bla</merge>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Device Information files are stored in the following standard hierachy with
the following default top level directories
.BR information ,
.B policy
and
.BR preprobe :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinformation\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Device information files to merge device information.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB10freedesktop\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Device information files included with the
.B hal
tarball.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20thirdparty
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Device information files from the device manufacturer and installed from
media accompanying the hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 30user
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Device information for specific devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B policy
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Device information files to merge policy propertys
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10osvendor
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Device information files included with the hal tarball and supplied by the
operating system vendor for policy rules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20thirdparty
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Policy rules from the device manufacturer and installed from media
accompanying the hardware
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 30user
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Policy rules for specific devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B preprobe
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Device information files to merge information before probe devices.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10osvendor
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Device information files included with the
.B hal
tarball and supplied
by the operating system vendor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 20thirdparty
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Device information files from the device manufacturer and installed from
media accompanying the hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 30user
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Device information for specific devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
All device information files are matched for every
.B hal
device object.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWhalr
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR hald (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR hal (5),
.BR locale (5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
