'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ftphosts 4 "1 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ftphosts \- FTP Server individual user host access file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/ftpd/ftphosts\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ftphosts
file is used to allow or deny access to accounts from
specified hosts. The following access capabilities are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBallow \fIusername addrglob\fR [\fIaddrglob\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Only allow users to login as
.I username
from host(s) that match
.IR addrglob .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdeny \fIusername addrglob\fR [\fIaddrglob\fR.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not allow users to login as
.I username
from host(s) that match
.IR addrglob .
.RE

.sp
.LP
A
.I username
of
.B *
matches all users. A
.I username
of
.B anonymous
or
.B ftp
specifies the anonymous user.
.sp
.LP
.I addrglob
is a regular expression that is matched against hostnames or
IP addresses.
.I addrglob
may also be in the form
.BR address:netmask
or
.BR address/CIDR ,
or be the name of a file that starts with a slash
('\fB/\fR') and contains additional address globs. An exclamation mark
(`\fB!\fR') placed before the \fBaddrglob\fR negates the test.
.sp
.LP
The first
.B allow
or
.B deny
entry in the
.B ftphosts
file that
matches a
.I username
and host is used. If no entry exists for a
.IR username ,
then access is allowed. Otherwise, a matching allow entry is
required to permit access.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
You can use the following
.B ftphosts
file to allow anonymous access
from any host except those on the class A network 10, with the exception of
.B 10.0.0.*
IP addresses, which are allowed access:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
allow   ftp   10.0.0.*
deny    ftp   10.*.*.*
allow   ftp   *
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.B 10.0.0.*
can be written as
.B 10.0.0.0:255.255.255.0
or
.BR 10.0.0.0/24 .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ftpd/ftphosts
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWftpr
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
 \fBin.ftpd\fR(1M),
.BR ftpaccess (4),
.BR attributes (5)
