'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gateways 4 "20 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
gateways \- configuration file for /usr/sbin/in.routed IPv4 network routing
daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/gateways\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/gateways
file is used by the routing daemon,
.BR in.routed (1M).
When the daemon starts, it reads
.B /etc/gateways
to
find such distant gateways that cannot be located using only information
from a routing socket, to discover if some of the local gateways are
passive, and to obtain other parameters.
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/gateways
file consists of a series of lines, each in one of
the two formats shown below or consisting of parameters described later.
Blank lines and lines starting with "\fB#\fR" are treated as comments.
.sp
.LP
One format specifies networks:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
net Nname[/mask] gateway Gname metric value <passive | active | external>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The other format specifies hosts:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
host \fIHname\fR gateway \fIGname\fR metric \fIvalue\fR <passive | active | external>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Host
.I hname
is equivalent to \fBnet \fInname\fR/32.
.sp
.LP
The parameters in the lines shown above are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I Nname
or
.IR Hname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the destination network or host. It can be a symbolic network name
or an Internet address specified in
.B dot
notation (see
.BR inet (3SOCKET)).
If it is a name, then it must either be defined in
.B /etc/networks
or
.BR /etc/hosts ,
or a naming service must have been
started before
.BR in.routed (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I Mask
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An optional number between 1 and 32 indicating the netmask associated with
Nname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I Gname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name or address of the gateway to which RIP responses should be
forwarded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I Value
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The hop count to the destination host or network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B passive
|
.B active
|
.B external
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One of these keywords must be present to indicate whether the gateway
should be treated as passive or active, or whether the gateway is external
to the scope of the RIP protocol. A passive gateway is not expected to
exchange routing information, while gateways marked active should be willing
to exchange RIP packets. See
.BR in.routed (1M)
for further details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
After turning on debugging in
.B in.routed
with the
.B -t
option, you
can see that lines that follow the format described above create
pseudo-interfaces. To set parameters for remote or external interfaces, use
a line starting with \fBif=alias(\fIHname\fR)\fR,
\fBif=remote(\fIHname\fR)\fR, and so forth.
.sp
.LP
For backward compatibility with the previous Solaris
.BR in.routed
implementation, three special keyword formats are accepted. If present,
these forms must each be on a separate line, and must not be combined on the
same line with any of the keywords listed elsewhere in this document. These
three forms are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "norip " ifname
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Disable all RIP processing on the specified interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "noripin " ifname
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Disable the processing of received RIP responses on the specified
interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI "noripout " ifname
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Disable RIP output on the specified interface.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Lines that start with neither
.B net
nor
.B host
must consist of one
or more of the following parameter settings, separated by commas or
blanks:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI if= ifname
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the other parameters on the line apply only to the interface
name
.IR ifname .
If this parameter is not specified, then other parameters
on the line apply to all interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsubnet=\fInname\fR[/\fImask\fR][,\fImetric\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Advertises a route to network nname with mask mask and the supplied metric
(default 1). This is useful for filling
.B holes
in CIDR allocations.
This parameter must appear by itself on a line. The network number must
specify a full, 32-bit value, as in
.B 192.0.2.0
instead of
.BR 192.0.2 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBripv1_mask=\fInname\fR/\fImask1\fR,\fImask2\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the netmask of the network of which
.IR nname /\fImask1\fR
is a subnet should be
.IR mask2 .
For example,
.B ripv1_mask=192.0.2.16/28,27
marks
.B 192.0.2.16/28
as a subnet of
.B 192.0.2.0/27
instead of
.BR 192.0.2.0/24 .
It is better to turn on
RIPv2 instead of using this facility. See the description of
.BR ripv2_out ,
below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpasswd=\fIXXX\fR[|\fIKeyID\fR[\fIstart\fR|\fIstop\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a RIPv2 cleartext password that will be included on all RIPv2
responses sent, and checked on all RIPv2 responses received. Any blanks, tab
characters, commas, or "\fB#\fR", "\fB|\fR", or NULL characters in the
password must be escaped with a backslash (\fB\e\fR). The common escape
sequences \fB\en\fR, \fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\eb\fR, and \fB\e\fIxxx\fR
have their usual meanings. The
.I KeyID
must be unique but is ignored for
cleartext passwords. If present,
.I start
and
.I stop
are timestamps
in the form year/month/day@hour:minute. They specify when the password is
valid. The valid password with the longest future is used on output packets,
unless all passwords have expired, in which case the password that expired
most recently is used. If no passwords are valid yet, no password is output.
Incoming packets can carry any password that is valid, will be valid within
24 hours, or that was valid within 24 hours. To protect password secrecy,
the passwd settings are valid only in the
.B /etc/gateways
file and only
when that file is readable only by UID 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmd5_passwd=\fIXXX\fR|\fIKeyID\fR[\fIstart\fR|\fIstop\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a RIPv2 MD5 password. Except that a KeyID is required, this
keyword is similar to
.B passwd
(described above).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_ag
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off aggregation of subnets in RIPv1 and RIPv2 responses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_host
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off acceptance of host routes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_super_ag
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off aggregation of networks into supernets in RIPv2 responses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B passive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the interface not to be advertised in updates sent over other
interfaces, and turns off all RIP and router discovery through the
interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_rip
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables all RIP processing on the specified interface. If no interfaces
are allowed to process RIP packets,
.B in.routed
acts purely as a router
discovery daemon.
.sp
Note that turning off RIP without explicitly turning on router discovery
advertisements with
.B rdisc_adv
or
.B -s
causes
.B in.routed
to
act as a client router discovery daemon, which does not advertise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_rip_mcast
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes RIPv2 packets to be broadcast instead of multicast.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_ripv1_in
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes RIPv1 received responses to be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_ripv2_in
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes RIPv2 received responses to be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ripv2_out
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns on RIPv2 output and causes RIPv2 advertisements to be multicast when
possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ripv2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to
.B no_ripv1_in
and
.BR ripv2_out .
This enables RIPv2 and
disables RIPv1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_rdisc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the Internet Router Discovery Protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_solicit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the transmission of Router Discovery Solicitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B send_solicit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that Router Discovery solicitations should be sent, even on
point-to-point links, which, by default, only listen to Router Discovery
messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B no_rdisc_adv
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the transmission of Router Discovery Advertisements.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rdisc_adv
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that Router Discovery Advertisements should be sent, even on
point-to-point links, which by default only listen to Router Discovery
messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B bcast_rdisc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that Router Discovery packets should be broadcast instead of
multicast.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI rdisc_pref= N
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the preference in Router Discovery Advertisements to the optionally
signed integer
.IR N .
The default preference is 0. Default routes with
higher or less negative preferences are preferred by clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI rdisc_interval= N
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the nominal interval with which Router Discovery Advertisements are
transmitted to
.I N
seconds and their lifetime to 3*\fIN\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI fake_default= metric
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Has an identical effect to
.BR "-F net" [/\fImask\fR][=\fImetric\fR]
with the network number and netmask coming from the specified interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pm_rdisc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Similar to
.BR fake_default .
To prevent RIPv1 listeners from receiving
RIPv2 routes when those routes are multicast, this feature causes a RIPv1
default route to be broadcast to RIPv1 listeners. Unless modified with
.BR fake_default ,
the default route is broadcast with a metric of 14. That
serves as a
.B "poor man's router discovery"
protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtrust_gateway=\fIrtr_name\fR[|\fInet1\fR/\fImask1\fR|\fInet2\fR/\fImask2\fR|.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes RIP packets from that router and other routers named in other
.B trust_gateway
keywords to be accepted, and packets from other routers
to be ignored. If networks are specified, then routes to other networks will
be ignored from that router.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B redirect_ok
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes RIP to allow ICMP Redirect messages when the system is acting as a
router and forwarding packets. Otherwise, ICMP Redirect messages are
overridden.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI rip_neighbor= x.x.x.x
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, RIPv1 advertisements over point-to-point links are sent to the
peer's address (255.255.255.255, if none is available), and RIPv2
advertisements are sent to either the RIP multicast address or the peer's
address if
.B no_rip_mcast
is set. This option overrides those defaults
and configures a specific address to use on the indicated interface. This
can be used to set a broadcast type advertisement on a point-to-point
link.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR in.routed (1M),
.BR route (1M),
.BR rtquery (1M),
.BR inet (3SOCKET),
.sp
.LP
\fIInternet Transport Protocols, XSIS 028112, Xerox System Integration
Standard\fR
