'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH holidays 4 "18 Aug 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
holidays \- prime/nonprime table for the accounting system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/acct/holidays\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/acct/holidays
file specifies prime time hours and holidays.
Holidays and weekends are considered non-prime time hours.
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/acct/holidays
is used by the accounting system.
.sp
.LP
All lines beginning with an
.B *
are comments.
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/acct/holidays
file consists of two sections. The first
non-comment line defines the current year and the start time of prime and
non-prime time hours, in the form of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIcurrent_year\fR \fIprime_start\fR \fInon_prime_start\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Specify
.I prime_start
and
.I non_prime_start
times in the range of
.B 0000
to
.BR 2400 .
.sp
.LP
The remaining non-comment lines define the holidays in the form of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fImonth/day\fR \fIcompany_holiday\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Of these two fields, only the
.I month/day
is actually used by the
accounting system programs.
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/acct/holidays
file must be updated every year.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An Example of the
.B /etc/acct/holidays
File
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the
.B /etc/acct/holidays
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
* Prime/Nonprime Table for the accounting system
*
* Curr     Prime     Non-Prime
* Year     Start     Start
*
  1991     0830     1800
*
* only the first column (month/day) is significant.
*
* month/day    Company Holiday
*
  1/1          New Years Day
  5/30         Memorial Day
  7/4          Indep. Day
  9/5          Labor Day
  11/24        Thanksgiving Day
  11/25        day after Thanksgiving
  12/25        Christmas
  12/26        day after Christmas
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acct (1M)
