'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1988, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hosts 4 "24 Feb 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
hosts \- host name database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inet/hosts\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/hosts\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inet/ipnodes\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B hosts
file is a local database that associates the names of hosts
with their Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. An IP address can be in either
IPv4 or IPv6 format. The
.B hosts
file can be used in conjunction with,
or instead of, other hosts databases, including the Domain Name System
(DNS), the NIS
.B hosts
map, the NIS+
.B hosts
table, or information
from an LDAP server. Programs use library interfaces to access information
in the
.B hosts
file.
.sp
.LP
Note that
.B /etc/hosts
and
.B /etc/inet/ipnodes
are symbolic links
to
.BR /etc/inet/hosts .
.sp
.LP
The
.B hosts
file has one entry for each IP address of each host. If a
host has more than one IP address, it will have one entry for each, on
consecutive lines. The format of each line is:
.sp
.LP
.I IP-address official-host-name
.IR nicknames\|.\|.\| .
.sp
.LP
Items are separated by any number of
.B SPACE
.RB and/or " TAB"
characters. The first item on a line is the host's IP address. The second
entry is the host's official name. Subsequent entries on the same line are
alternative names for the same machine, or "nicknames." Nicknames are
optional.
.sp
.LP
For a host with more than one IP address, consecutive entries for these
addresses may contain the same or differing nicknames. Different nicknames
are useful for assigning distinct names to different addresses.
.sp
.LP
A call to
.BR gethostbyname "(3NSL) returns a"
.B hostent
structure
containing the union of all IPv4 addresses and nicknames from each line
containing a matching official name or nickname. A call to
.BR getipnodebyname (3SOCKET)
is similar, but is capable of returning
.B hostent
structures containing IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. Applications
might prefer to use the address-family independent
.BR getaddrinfo (3SOCKET)
API for name-to-address lookups.
.sp
.LP
A `\fB#\fR' indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the end
of the line are not interpreted by routines that search the file.
.sp
.LP
Network addresses are written in one of two ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The conventional "decimal dot" notation and interpreted using the
.B inet_addr
routine from the Internet address manipulation library,
.BR inet (3SOCKET).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The IP Version 6 protocol [IPV6], defined in RFC 1884 and interpreted using
the
.B inet_pton()
routine from the Internet address manipulation
library. See
.BR inet (3SOCKET).
.RE
.sp
.LP
This interface supports node names as defined in Internet RFC 952, which
states:
.sp
.LP
A "name" (Net, Host, Gateway, or Domain name) is a text string up to 24
characters drawn from the alphabet (A-Z), digits (0-9), minus sign (\(mi),
and period (.). Note that periods are only allowed when they serve to
delimit components of "domain style names". (See RFC 921, "Domain Name
System Implementation Schedule," for background). No blank or space
characters are permitted as part of a name. No distinction is made between
uppercase and lowercase. The first character must be an alpha character [or
a digit. (RFC 1123 relaxed RFC 952's limitation of the first character to
only alpha characters.)] The last character must not be a minus sign or
period.
.sp
.LP
Host names must not consist of numbers only. A host name must contain at
least one alphabetical or special character.
.sp
.LP
Although the interface accepts host names longer than 24 characters for the
host portion (exclusive of the domain component), choosing names for hosts
that adhere to the 24 character restriction will insure maximum
interoperability on the Internet.
.sp
.LP
A host which serves as a GATEWAY should have "\(miGATEWAY" or "\(miGW" as
part of its name. Hosts which do not serve as Internet gateways should not
use "\(miGATEWAY" and "\(miGW" as part of their names. A host which is a TAC
should have "\(miTAC" as the last part of its host name, if it is a DoD
host. Single character names or nicknames are not allowed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Example
.B hosts
File Entry
.sp
.LP
The following is a typical line from the
.B hosts
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
192.9.1.20        gaia                        # John Smith
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Example IPv6 Address Entry
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of an IPv6
.B hosts
entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
2001:0db8:3c4d:55:a00:20ff:fe8e:f3ad  myhost  # John Smith
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gethostbyname (3NSL),
.BR getipnodebyname (3SOCKET),
.BR inet (3SOCKET),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR resolv.conf (4)
.sp
.LP
Braden, B., editor, RFC 1123, \fIRequirements for Internet Hosts -
Application and Support\fR, Network Working Group, October, 1989.
.sp
.LP
Harrenstien, K., Stahl, M., and Feinler, E., RFC 952, \fIDOD Internet Host
Table Specification\fR, Network Working Group, October 1985.
.sp
.LP
Hinden, R., and Deering, S., editors, RFC 1884, \fIIP Version 6 Addressing
Architecture\fR, Network Working Group, December, 1995.
.sp
.LP
Postel, Jon, RFC 921, \fIDomain Name System Implementation Schedule
(Revised)\fR, Network Working Group, October 1984.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/inet/hosts
is the official SVR4 name of the
.B hosts
file.
The symbolic link
.B /etc/hosts
exists for
.B BSD
compatibility.
.sp
.LP
The symbolic link
.B /etc/net/ipnodes
exists for backwards compatibility
with previous Solaris releases.
