'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH hosts.equiv 4 "23 Jun 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
hosts.equiv, rhosts \- trusted remote hosts and users
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/hosts.equiv\fR and \fB\&.rhosts\fR files provide the "remote
authentication" database for \fBrlogin\fR(1), \fBrsh\fR(1), \fBrcp\fR(1),
and
.BR rcmd (3SOCKET).
The files specify remote hosts and users that are
considered "trusted". Trusted users are allowed to access the local system
without supplying a password. The library routine
.B ruserok()
(see
.BR rcmd (3SOCKET))
performs the authentication procedure for programs by
using the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and \fB\&.rhosts\fR files. The
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file applies to the entire system, while individual
users can maintain their own \fB\&.rhosts\fR files in their home
directories.
.sp
.LP
These files bypass the standard password-based user authentication
mechanism. To maintain system security, care must be taken in creating and
maintaining these files.
.sp
.LP
The remote authentication procedure determines whether a user from a remote
host should be allowed to access the local system with the identity of a
local user. This procedure first checks the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file and
then checks the \fB\&.rhosts\fR file in the home directory of the local user
who is requesting access. Entries in these files can be of two forms.
Positive entries  allow access, while  negative entries deny access. The
authentication succeeds when a matching positive entry is found. The
procedure fails when the first matching negative entry is found, or if no
matching entries are found in either file. The order of entries is
important. If the files contain both positive and negative entries, the
entry that appears first will prevail. The
.BR rsh (1)
and
.BR rcp (1)
programs fail if the remote authentication procedure fails. The
.B rlogin
program falls back to the standard password-based login procedure if the
remote authentication fails.
.sp
.LP
Both files are formatted as a list of one-line entries.  Each entry has the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Hostnames must be the official name of the host, not one of its
nicknames.
.sp
.LP
Negative entries are differentiated from positive entries by a `\(mi'
character preceding either the
.I hostname
or
.I username
field.
.SS "Positive Entries"
.sp
.LP
If the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
is used, then users from the named host are trusted. That is, they may
access the system with the same user name as they have on the remote system.
This form may be used in both the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
\fB\&.rhosts\fR files.
.sp
.LP
If the line is in the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR \fIusername\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
then the named user from the named host can access the system. This form
may be used in individual \fB\&.rhosts\fR files to allow  remote users to
access the system
.IR "as a different local user" .
If this form is used in
the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file, the named remote user will be allowed to
access the system as
.B any
local user.
.sp
.LP
.BR netgroup (4)
can be used in either the
.I hostname
or
.I username
fields to match a number of hosts or users in one entry. The
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+@\fInetgroup\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
allows access from all hosts in the named netgroup. When used in the
.I username
field, netgroups allow a group of remote users to access the
system as a particular local user.  The form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR \fB+@\fInetgroup\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
allows all of the users in the named netgroup from the named host to access
the system as the local user. The form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+@\fInetgroup1\fR \fB+@\fInetgroup2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
allows the users in
.I netgroup2
from the hosts in
.I netgroup1
to
access the system as the local user.
.sp
.LP
The special character `+' can be used in place of either
.I hostname
or
.I username
to match any host or user. For example, the entry
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will allow a user from any remote host to access the system with the same
username. The entry
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+\fR \fIusername\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will allow the named user from any remote host to access the system. The
entry
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR \fB+\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will allow any user from the named host to access the system as the local
user.
.SS "Negative Entries"
.sp
.LP
Negative entries are preceded by a `\(mi' sign. The form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\(mi\fIhostname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will disallow all access from the named host. The form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\(mi@\fInetgroup\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
means that access is explicitly disallowed from all hosts in the named
netgroup. The form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhostname\fR \fB\(mi\fIusername\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
disallows access by the named user only from the named host, while the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+ \(mi@\fInetgroup\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will disallow access by all of the users in the named netgroup from all
hosts.
.SS "Search Sequence"
.sp
.LP
To help maintain system security, the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file is not
checked when access is being attempted for super-user. If the user
attempting access is not the super-user,
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
is searched
for lines of the form described above. Checks are made for lines in this
file in the following order:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
.B +
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.BI +@ netgroup
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
\fB\(mi@\fInetgroup\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
\fB\(mi\fIhostname\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
.I hostname
.RE
.sp
.LP
The user is granted access if a positive match occurrs.  Negative entries
apply only to
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and may be overridden by subsequent
\fB\&.rhosts\fR entries.
.sp
.LP
If no positive match occurred, the \fB\&.rhosts\fR file is then searched if
the user attempting access maintains such a file. This file is searched
whether or not the user attempting access is the super-user. As a security
feature, the \fB\&.rhosts\fR file must be owned by the user who is
attempting access. Checks are made for lines in \fB\&.rhosts\fR in the
following order:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
.B +
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
.BI +@ netgroup
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
\fB\(mi@\fInetgroup\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
\fB\(mi\fIhostname\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
.I hostname
.RE
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
system trusted hosts and users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ~/.rhosts
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
user's trusted hosts and users
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rcp (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR rsh (1),
.BR rcmd (3SOCKET),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR netgroup (4),
.BR passwd (4)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Positive entries in
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
that include a
.IR username
field (either an individual named user, a netgroup, or
.RB ` + '
sign)
should be used with extreme caution. Because
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
applies
system-wide, these entries  allow one, or a group of, remote users to access
the system
.BR "as any local user" .
This can be a security hole. For
example, because of the search sequence, an
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file
consisting of the entries
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB+
\(mihostxxx\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will not deny access to "hostxxx".
