'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ib 4 "19 Feb 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ib \- InfiniBand device driver configuration files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The InfiniBand (IB) bus is an I/O transport based on switched fabrics. IB
devices are managed by the
.BR ib "(7D) nexus driver. There are three"
categories of InfiniBand devices:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
IB  port/IB VPPA/IB HCA_SVC devices
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
IB IOC devices
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
IB Pseudo devices
.RE
.sp
.LP
The IB  port/IB VPPA/IB HCA_SVC devices are enumerated by way of the
.B ib.conf
file. See
.BR ib (7D).
.sp
.LP
The IB IOC devices are enumerated using the InfiniBand Device management
class. See
.BR ibdm (7D).
.sp
.LP
For devices not in these two categories, most notably IB Pseudo devices,
the driver must provide configuration files to inform the system of the IB
devices to be created. Configuration parameters are represented in the form
of name value pairs you can retrieve using the DDI property interfaces. See
.BR ddi_prop_op (9F)
for details.
.sp
.LP
Configuration files for IB device drivers must identify the parent driver
explicitly as
.BR ib ,
and must create a string array property called
.B unit-address
which is unique to this entry in the configuration file.
Drivers name
.B ibport
and
.B ioc
are reserved by
.BR ib "(7D) and"
should not be used.
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the configuration file creates a prototype \fBdevinfo\fR
node. Each node is assigned a unit address which is determined by the value
of the
.B unit-address
property. This property is only applicable to
children of the IB parent and is required. See
.BR driver.conf (4)
for
further details on configuration file syntax.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
Example 1: Sample configuration file
.sp
.LP
Here is a configuration file called
.B ibgen.conf
for an IB device
driver that implements a generic IB driver. This file creates a node called
.BR ibgen .
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     #
     # Copyright 2002-2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
     # Use is subject to license terms.
     #
     #ident  "@(#)ibgen.conf       1.3     03/05/01 SMI"
     name="ibgen" parent="ib" unit-address="0";
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR ib (7D),
.BR ibtl (7D),
.BR ddi_prop_op (9F)
