'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ike.preshared 4 "15 Oct 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ike.preshared \- pre-shared keys file for IKE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inet/secret/ike.preshared\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
 The
.B /etc/inet/secret/ike.preshared
file contains secret keying material that two
.B IKE
instances can use to authenticate each other. Because of the sensitive nature of this data, it is kept in the
.B /etc/inet/secret
directory, which is only accessible by root.
.sp
.LP
Pre-shared keys are delimited by open-curly-brace (\fB{\fR) and
close-curly-brace (\fB}\fR) characters. There are five name-value pairs
required inside a pre-shared key:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i)
lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i)
.
NameValueExample
localidtypeIPlocalidtype IP
remoteidtypeIPremoteidtype IP
localidIP-addresslocalid 10.1.1.2
remoteidIP-addressremoteid 10.1.1.3
keyhex-string          1234567890abcdef
.TE

.sp
.LP
Comment lines with
.B #
appearing in the first column are also legal.
.sp
.LP
Files in this format can also be used by the
.BR ikeadm "(1M) command to"
load additional pre-shared keys into a running an
.BR in.iked (1M)
process.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A Sample ike.preshared File
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of an
.B ike.preshared
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf

#
# Two pre-shared keys between myself, 10.1.1.2, and two remote
# hosts.  Note that names are not allowed for IP addresses.
#
# A decent hex string can be obtained by performing:
#           od -x </dev/random | head
#

{
    localidtype IP
    localid 10.1.1.2
    remoteidtype IP
    remoteid 10.21.12.4
    key 4b656265207761732068657265210c0a
}

{
   localidtype IP
   localid 10.1.1.2
   remoteidtype IP
   remoteid 10.9.1.25
   key 536f20776572652042696c6c2c2052656e65652c20616e642043687269732e0a
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SECURITY
.sp
.LP
If this file is compromised, all
.B IPsec
security associations derived
from secrets in this file will be compromised as well. The default
permissions on
.B ike.preshared
are
.BR 0600 .
They should stay this
way.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR od (1),
.BR ikeadm (1M),
.BR in.iked (1M),
.BR ipseckey (1M),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR random (7D)
