'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH Intro 4 "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
Intro, intro \- introduction to file formats
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This section outlines the formats of various files. The C structure
declarations for the file formats are given where applicable. Usually, the
headers containing these structure declarations can be found in the
directories
.B /usr/include
or
.BR /usr/include/sys .
For inclusion in C
language programs, however, the syntax
.B #include
<\fIfilename.h\fR> or
\fB#include\fR <\fBsys/\fIfilename.h\fR> should be used.
