'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ldapfilter.conf 4 "9 Jul 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ldapfilter.conf \- configuration file for LDAP filtering routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWconn/ldap/current/ldapfilter.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B ldapfilter.conf
file contains information used by the LDAP
filtering routines.
.sp
.LP
Blank lines and lines that begin with a hash character
.RB ( # )
are
treated as comments and ignored. The configuration information consists of
lines that contain one to five tokens. Tokens are separated by white space,
and double quotes can be used to include white space inside a token.
.sp
.LP
The file consists of a sequence of one or more filter sets. A filter set
begins with a line containing a single token called a
.IR tag .
.sp
.LP
The filter set consists of a sequence of one or more filter lists. The
first line in a filter list must contain four or five tokens: the
.IR "value pattern" ,
the
.IR "delimiter list" ,
a
.IR filtertemplate ,
a
.IR "match description" ,
and an optional
.IR "search scope" .
The
.IR "value pattern"
is a regular expression that is matched against the value passed to the LDAP
library call to select the filter list.
.sp
.LP
The
.I "delimiter list"
is a list of the characters (in the form of a
single string) that can be used to break the
.B value
into distinct
words.
.sp
.LP
The
.I "filter template"
is used to construct an LDAP filter (see
description below)
.sp
.LP
The
.I "match description"
is returned to the caller along with a filter
as a piece of text that can be used to describe the sort of LDAP search that
took place. It should correctly compete both of the following phrases: "One
.I
match description \c
match was found for .\|.\|." and "Three \fImatch
description\fR matches were found for...."
.sp
.LP
The
.I "search scope"
is optional, and should be one of
.BR base ,
.BR onelevel ,
or
.BR subtree .
If
.I "search scope"
is not provided, the
default is
.BR subtree .
.sp
.LP
The remaining lines of the filter list should contain two or three tokens,
a
.IR "filter template," " a " "match description"
and an optional
.IR "search scope" .
.sp
.LP
The
.I filter template
is similar in concept to a
.BR printf (3C)
style
format string. Everything is taken literally except for the character
sequences:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %v
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Substitute the entire
.B value
string in place of the
.BR %v .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B %v$
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Substitute the last word in this field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI %v N
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Substitute word
.I N
in this field (where
.I N
is a single digit
\fB1\fR-\fB9\fR). Words are numbered from left to right within the value
starting at
.BR 1 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI %v M-N
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Substitute the indicated sequence of words where
.I M
and
.I N
are
both single digits
.BR 1 -\fB9\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI %v N-
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Substitute word
.I N
through the last word in
.B value
where
.IR N
is again a single digit
.BR 1 -\fB9\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An LDAP Filter Configuration File
.sp
.LP
The following LDAP filter configuration file contains two filter sets,
.B example1
and
.BR "example2 onelevel" ,
each of which contains four
filter lists.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ldap filter file
#
example1
"="                " "     "%v"                    "arbitrary filter"
"[0-9][0-9-]*"    " "     "(telephoneNumber=*%v)" "phone number"

"@"                " "     "(mail=%v)"             "email address"

"^.[. _].*"        ". _"   "(cn=%v1* %v2-)"        "first initial"

".*[. _].$"        ". _"   "(cn=%v1-*)"            "last initial"

"[. _]"            ". _"   "(|(sn=%v1-)(cn=%v1-))"        "exact"
                           "(|(sn~=%v1-)(cn~=%v1-))"      "approximate"

".*"               ". "    "(|(cn=%v1)(sn=%v1)(uid=%v1))" "exact"
                           "(|(cn~=%v1)(sn~=%v1))"        "approximate"

"example2 onelevel"
"^..$"  " "   "(|(o=%v)(c=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v))"       "exact" "onelevel"
              "(|(o~=%v)(c~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v))"   "approximate"
"onelevel"

" "     " "   "(|(o=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"
              "(|(o~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v)"    "approximate"  "onelevel"

"."    " "   "(associatedDomain=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"

".*"    " "   "(|(o=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"
              "(|(o~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v)"    "approximate"  "onelevel"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlldap
Stability LevelEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ldap_getfilter (3LDAP),
.BR ldap_ufn (3LDAP),
.BR attributes (5)
