'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH logadm.conf 4 "23 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
logadm.conf \- configuration file for logadm command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/logadm.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/logadm.conf
is the default configuration file for the log
management tool
.BR logadm "(1M). Comments are allowed using the pound"
character (\fB#\fR) and extend to the end of line. Each non-comment line has
the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIlogname\fR \fIoptions\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.I logname
is the name of the entry and
.I options
are the
default command line options for the
.B logadm
command. The name of the
entry may be the same as the name of the log file, or a log file name may be
given in the options section of the entry. Long lines may be folded using a
backslash followed by a newline to continue an entry on the next line.
Single or double quotes may be used to protect spaces or alternate-style
quotes in strings.
.sp
.LP
The preferred method for changing
.B /etc/logadm.conf
is to use the
.BR -V ,
.BR -w ,
and
.B -r
options to the
.BR logadm "(1M) command,"
which allow you to lookup an entry, write an entry, or remove an entry from
.BR /etc/logadm.conf .
.sp
.LP
A full description of how and when
.B /etc/logadm.conf
is used and
sample entries are found in
.BR logadm (1M).
.sp
.LP
By default,
.BR logadm (1M)
works in
.BR GMT .
Therefore, all entries in
.B /etc/logadm.conf
will have a
.B GMT
timestamp. Users can use the
.B -l
option to set
.B logadm
to local time.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR logadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
