'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH logindevperm 4 "25 Sep 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
logindevperm, fbtab \- login-based device permissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/logindevperm\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B /etc/logindevperm
file contains information that is used by
.BR login (1)
and
.BR ttymon "(1M) to change the owner, group, and"
permissions of devices upon logging into or out of a console device. By
default, this file contains lines for the keyboard, mouse, audio, and frame
buffer devices.
.sp
.LP
The owner of the devices listed in
.B /etc/logindevperm
is set to the
owner of the console by
.BR login (1).
The group of the devices is set to
the owner's group specified in
.BR /etc/passwd .
The permissions are set as
specified in
.BR /etc/logindevperm .
.sp
.LP
If the console is
.BR /dev/vt/active ,
the owner of the devices is the
first user logged in on the consoles (\fB/dev/console\fR or
.BR /dev/vt/# ).
Upon this first user's logout the owner and group of these
devices is reset by
.BR ttymon "(1M) to owner root and root's group as"
specified in
.BR /etc/passwd .
.sp
.LP
Fields are separated by a TAB or SPACE characters. Blank lines and comments
can appear anywhere in the file; comments start with a hashmark,
.RB ( # ),
and continue to the end of the line.
.sp
.LP
The first field specifies the name of a console device (for example,
.BR /dev/console ).
By default, it is
.BR /dev/vt/active ,
which points to
the current active console, including
.B /dev/console
and all virtual
consoles
.RB ( /dev/vt/# ).
The second field specifies the permissions to
which the devices in the
.I device_list
field (third field) are set.
These permissions must be expressed in octal format, for example,
.BR 0774 .
A
.I device_list
is a colon-separated list of device names. A
device name must be a
.B /dev
link.
.sp
.LP
A directory or logical name in the device name can be either one of the
following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A fully qualified name, for example,
.BR fbs .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A regular expression, for example,
.BR [a-z0-9.]+ .
See
.BR regexp (5)
for more information on regular expressions.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The wildcard character
.B *
specifying all directory or node names
(except \fB\&.\fR and \fB\&..\fR, for example, \fB/dev/fbs/*\fR specifies
all frame buffer devices.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Some examples of
.B /etc/logindevperm
file entries include:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/usb/[0-9a-f]+[.][0-9a-f]+/[0-9]+/[a-z0-9.]+
/dev/usb/[0-9a-f]+[.][0-9a-f]+/[0-9]+/*
/dev/usb/[0-9a-f]+[.][0-9a-f]+/*/*
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Specify all
.BR ugen "(7D) endpoints and status nodes."
.sp
.LP
Drivers can also be specified to limit the permission changes to minor
nodes owned by the specified drivers. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/console    0600    /dev/usb/[0-9a-f]+[.][0-9a-f]+/[0-9]+/* \e
driver=usb_mid,scsa2usb,usbprn  # libusb devices
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Due to the persistence of \fBdevfs\fR(7FS) minor node management, the user
should be logged in as root if the list of minor nodes will be reduced and
the devices should all be plugged in.
.sp
.LP
Once the devices are owned by the user, their permissions and ownership can
be changed using
.BR chmod (1)
and
.BR chown (1),
as with any other
user-owned file.
.sp
.LP
Upon logout the owner and group of these devices are reset by
.BR ttymon (1M)
to owner
.B root
and root's group as specified in
.B /etc/passwd
(typically
.BR other ).
The permissions are set as
specified in the
.B /etc/logindevperm
file.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/passwd
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
File that contains user group information.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR chmod (1),
.BR chown (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR ttymon (1M),
.BR passwd (4),
.BR regexp (5),
.BR ugen (7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/logindevperm
provides a superset of the functionality provided
by \fB/etc/fbtab\fR in SunOS 4.\fIx\fR releases.
