'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH magic 4 "6 Feb 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
magic \- file command's magic number file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/magic\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.BR file (1)
command identifies the type of a file using, among other
tests, a test for whether the file begins with a certain
.IR "magic number" .
The
.B /etc/magic
file, or a file specified as an option-argument to the
.B -m
or
.B -M
options of
.BR file (1),
specifies what magic numbers
are to be tested for, what message to print if a particular magic number is
found, and additional information to extract from the file.
.sp
.LP
Each line of the file specifies a position-sensitive test to perform. A
test compares the data starting at a particular offset in the file with a
1-byte, 2-byte, 4-byte, or 8-byte numeric value or string. If the test
succeeds, a message is printed. The line consists of the following fields
(separated by tabs): \fIoffset type\fR \fIvalue message\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I offset
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A number specifying the offset, in bytes, into the file of the data which
is to be tested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The type of the data to be tested. The possible values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B byte, d1, dC
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A one-byte signed value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B short, d2, dS
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A 2-byte signed value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B long, d4, dI, dL, d
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A 4-byte signed value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B llong, d8
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
An 8-byte signed value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ubyte, u1, uC
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A one-byte unsigned value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ushort, u2, uS
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A 2-byte unsigned value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ulong, u4, uI, uL, u
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A 4-byte unsigned value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ullong, u8
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
An 8-byte unsigned value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B string, s
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
A string of bytes.
.RE

All type specifiers, except for
.B string
and
.BR s ,
may be followed
by a mask specifier of the form \fB&\fInumber\fR. If a mask specifier is
given, the value is AND'ed with the
.I number
before any comparisons are
done. The
.I number
is specified in C form. For instance,
.B 13
is
decimal,
.B 013
is octal, and
.B 0x13
is hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The value to be compared with the value from the file. If the type is
numeric, this value is specified in
.B C
form. If it is a string, it is
specified as a
.B C
string with the usual escapes permitted (for
instance, \en for NEWLINE).
.sp
.I Numeric values
may be preceded by a character indicating the
operation to be performed, as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B =
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The value from the file must equal the specified value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B <
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The value from the file must be less than the specified value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B >
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
The value from the file must be greater than the specified value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B &
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
All the bits in the specified value must be set in the value from the
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ^
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
At least one of the bits in the specified value must not be set in the
value from the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B x
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Any value will match.
.RE

If the character is omitted, it is assumed to be "\fB=\fR".
.sp
For comparison of numeric values, the sign and size of both the value in
the file and the value from the
.I value
field of the magic entry will
match that of the corresponding
.I type
field. If there is a non-zero
mask (\fB&\fR) in the \fItype\fR field, the comparison will be unsigned.
.sp
For string values, the byte string from the file must match the specified
byte string. The byte string from the file which is matched is the same
length as the specified byte string. If the value is a string, it can
contain the following sequences:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\fIcharacter\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The backslash-escape sequences \fB\e\e\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR,
\fB\en\fR, \fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\e\fIoctal\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Octal sequences that can be used to represent characters with specific
coded values. An octal sequence consists of a backslash followed by the
longest sequence of one, two, or three octal-digit characters (01234567).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I message
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The message to be printed if the comparison succeeds. If the string
contains a \fBprintf\fR(3C) format specification, the value from the file
(with any specified masking performed) is printed using the message as the
format string.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Some file formats contain additional information which is to be printed
along with the file type. A line which begins with the character "\fB>\fR"
indicates additional tests and messages to be printed. If the test on the
line preceding the first line with a "\fB>\fR" succeeds, the tests specified
in all the subsequent lines beginning with "\fB>\fR" are performed, and the
messages are printed if the tests succeed. The next line which does not
begin with a "\fB>\fR" terminates this.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/magic
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR file (1),
.BR file (1B),
.BR printf (3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In Solaris 9 and prior releases, the file utility may have performed
unsigned comparisons for types
.BR byte ,
.BR short ,
and
.BR long .
Old
user-defined magic files, which were specified with the
.B -m
option,
will need modification of
.BR byte ,
.BR short ,
and
.B long
entries to
their corresponding unsigned types (\fBubyte\fR,
.BR ushort ,
or
.BR ulong )
for those entries for which all of the following are true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The entry uses the "\fB<\fR" or the "\fB>\fR" operator.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The
.B type
field does not contain a non-zero mask.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The intention of the entry is to test unsigned values.
.RE
.sp
.LP
For example, if the following entry is expected to match any non-zero,
one-byte value from the file, including values for which the sign bit is
on:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#offset type    value   message
0       byte    >0      this matches any non-zero value
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
then that entry should be changed to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0       ubyte    >0     this matches any non-zero value
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In Solaris 7 through Solaris 9, when applying tests for magic file entries
whose \fBtype\fR field is the numeric type "short" or "long", the file
utility in the x86 environment would switch the byte order of the numeric
values read. Starting in Solaris 10, the byte order will not be switched on
x86. A test for a numeric value whose byte order is identical in both
little- and big-endian architectures may require two magic file entries, to
ensure that the test correctly identifies files in both environments. For
example, a magic file entry that will match on a big-endian system may look
like this:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0       long      0xf00000ff      extended accounting file
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Its corresponding magic file entry that will match the same value on a
little-endian system would look like this:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0       long      0xff0000f0      extended accounting file
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
There should be more than one level of subtests, with the level indicated
by the number of `\fB>\fR' at the beginning of the line.
