'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mod_ipp 4 "26 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
mod_ipp \- Embedded Internet Print Protocol (IPP) listener for the Apache
HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/apache/libexec/mod_ipp.so\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mod_ipp
module implements RFCs 2910 and 2911 to provide an IPP
handling service for the Apache HTTP server. When loaded on the Apache
server,
.B mod_ipp
processes all HTTP requests with MIME types of
.BR application/ipp .
The
.B mod_ipp
module also processes additional
configuration directives to enable or disable portions of the protocol
support.
.SS "Using Configuration Directives"
.sp
.LP
The following is a list of configuration directives that apply to the
Apache IPP Listening service:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
ipp-conformance (\fIautomatic\fR|\fI1.0\fR|\fI1.1\fR)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
ipp-operation (\fIoperation\fR) (\fBenable\fR|\fBdisable\fR)
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBenable\fR|\fBdisable\fR
.sp
The values
.BR true ,
.BR yes ,
.BR on ,
\fBenable\fR are considered to
be synonymous and will enable support for the named operation. All other
values will disable support for the named operation.
.RE
.RE
.SS "Operations"
.sp
.LP
The following is a list of IPP handling service operations:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B print-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This operation is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to
submit a print job with a single document embedded in the data stream. This
operation is primarily used from the IPP support Microsoft has provided for
its Windows (9X/ME/NT/2K/XP).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B print-uri
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to submit a
print job with a reference (URL) for a single document. This operation is
currently not supported by the
.B mod_ipp
Apache Module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B validate-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to simulate the
submission of a print job to verify that the server is capable of handling
the job. This operation is supported by
.BR mod_ipp .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B create-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to submit a
print job. The operation is used with the
.B send-document
and
\fBsend-uri\fR operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B get-jobs
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to retrieve a
list of print jobs from the print service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B get-printer-attributes
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to retrieve
attributes from the print service that describes the named printer object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B pause-printer
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to stop job
processing on the named print queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B resume-printer
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to resume job
processing on the named print queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B purge-jobs
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to cancel all
print jobs on the named print queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B send-document
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to add
documents to print jobs created with the
.B create-job
operation, but not
yet submitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B send-uri
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows a client system to add a
document reference (URI) to a print job created with the \fBcreate-job\fR
operation, but not yet submitted. This operation is currently not supported
by the
.B mod_ipp
Apache Module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B cancel-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to cancel print
jobs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B get-job-attributes
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a required IPP operation that allows client systems to retrieve
attributes that describe a print job from the print service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B hold-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to hold print
jobs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B release-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to release
print jobs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B restart-job
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is an optional IPP operation that allows client systems to restart
print jobs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B all
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a place holder for enabling or disabling support for all IPP
operations implemented by the
.B mod_ipp
Apache module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B required
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
This is a place holder for enabling or disabling support for the required
IPP operations implemented by the
.B mod_ipp
Apache module.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using a Configuration File to Start a Standalone Apache
Server
.sp
.LP
The following configuration file can be used to start a standalone Apache
server to respond to IPP request sent to port 631.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ServerType standalone
ServerRoot "/usr/apache"
PidFile /var/run/httpd-standalone-ipp.pid
ErrorLog /var/lp/logs/ipp-errors

Timeout 300
KeepAlive On
MaxKeepAliveRequests 100
KeepAliveTimeout 15

MinSpareServers 1
MaxSpareServers 3
StartServers 1
MaxClients 150
MaxRequestsPerChild 0

LoadModule ipp_module libexec/mod_ipp.so

ClearModuleList
AddModule mod_ipp.c
AddModule mod_so.c

Port 631

User lp
Group lp

ServerAdmin lp@localhost
DefaultType application/ipp

<IFModule mod_app>
        <Location />
               ipp-operation all on
        </Location>
</IFModule mod_app>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A more restrictive configuration might include the following parameters:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
<IFModule mod_app>
        <Location />
               ipp-operation all offn
               ipp-operation required on
        </Location>
</IFModule mod_app>
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
or descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipplu
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR man (1),
.BR catman (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Herriot, R., Ed., Butler, S., Moore, P., Turner, R., Wenn, J. \fIRFC 2910,
Internet Printing Protocol/1.1: Encoding and Transport\fR. Network Working
Group. September 2000.
.sp
.LP
Hastings, T., Ed., Herriot, R., deBry, R., Isaacson, S., Powell, P. \fIRFC
2911, Internet Printing Protocol/1.1: Model and Semantics\fR. Network
Working Group. September 2000.
.sp
.LP
http://www.apache.org
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Configuration file directives are processed in the order listed in the
config file. The default behavior is to enable support for all operations
implemented in the
.B mod_ipp
Apache module.
.sp
.LP
Since the Apache IPP listening service implements some capabilities that
are more of operator features, it may not be desirable to enable all IPP
operations without requiring user authentication on the Apache listening
service.
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of a more reasonable configuration for Apache
IPP servers without user authentication enabled:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ipp-operations  all      disabled
ipp-operations  required enabled
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The printers and jobs available under this service can be accessed using
URIs of the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
printer:
                 http://server[:port]/printers/{queue}
                 ipp://server[:port]/printers/{queue}
job:
                 http://server[:port]/printers/{queue}/{job-id}
                 ipp://server[:port]/printers/{queue}/{job-id}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
631 is the default IPP port and implied when the URI scheme is
.BR ipp .
However, some client implementations do not recognize the
.B ipp
URI
scheme and require \fBhttp://server:631/.\|.\|.\fR instead. For example,
Microsoft's IPP client implementation does not recognize the \fBipp\fR
scheme.
.sp
.LP
In addition to the documentation and man pages included with Solaris, more
information is available at http://www.apache.org
.sp
.LP
The
.BR httpd (8)
man page and other Apache man pages are provided with
the programming modules. To view the Apache manual pages with the man
command, add
.B /usr/apache/man
to the
.B MANPATH
environment
variable. See
.BR man (1)
for  more information. Running \fBcatman\fR(1M)
on the Apache manual pages is not supported.
