'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH packingrules 4 "23 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
packingrules \- packing rules file for cachefs and filesync
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB$\fBHOME\fB/.packingrules\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B $HOME/.packingrules
is a packing rules file for
.B filesync
and
.BR cachefspack .
.B $HOME/.packingrules
contains a list of directories and files that are to be packed and
synchronized. It also contains a list of directories and files that are to
be specifically excluded from packing and synchronization. See
.BR filesync (1)
and  \fBcachefspack\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file is automatically created if
users invoke \fBfilesync\fR with filename arguments. By using \fBfilesync\fR
options, users can augment the packing rules in
.BR $HOME/.packingrules .
.sp
.LP
Many users choose to manually create the packing rules file and edit it by
hand. Users can edit
.B $HOME/.packingrules
(using any
editor) to permanently change the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file, or to gain access to more powerful options that are not available from
the command line (such as
.B IGNORE
commands). It is much easier to enter
complex wildcard expressions by editing the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file.
.sp
.LP
Blank lines and lines that begin with a pound sign  (`\fB#\fR') are
ignored.
.sp
.LP
Any line can be continued by placing a backslash  (`\fB\e\fR\&')
immediately before the
.BR NEWLINE.
.sp
.LP
All other lines in the
.B $HOME/.packingrules
file have one
of the following formats:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PACKINGRULES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.IR major .
.IR minor .
This line is not actually required, but it should
be the first  line of every packing rules file. This line identifies the
packing rules file for the
.BR file (1)
command and specifies a format
version number. The current version number is 1.1. See
.BR file (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBBASE\fR \fIdirectory-1\fR [\fIdirectory-2\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line identifies a directory (or pair of directories) under which files
should be packed and synchronized. At least one directory name must be
specified. For rules that are to be used by
.B filesync
a second
directory name (where the copies are to be kept) must also be specified. The
arguments must be fully qualified path names, and may include environment
variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LIST
.I name
\&\|.\|.\|.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line enumerates a list of files and sub-directories  (beneath the
current
.B BASE)
that are to be kept  synchronized. This specification is
recursive, in that specifying the name of a directory automatically includes
all files and subdirectories it contains. Regular expressions  (as described
in
.B glob
and
.BR gmatch )
are permitted. See
.BR glob (1)
and
.BR gmatch (3GEN).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IGNORE
.I name
\&\|.\|.\|.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This line enumerates a list of files that are not to be kept synchronized.
Regular expressions  (using
.B glob
and
.BR gmatch )
are permitted.
.RE

.sp
.LP
There are important differences between the arguments to
.B LIST
and
.B IGNORE
statements. The arguments to a
.B LIST
statement can contain
slashes and are interpreted as file names relative to the
.BR BASE
directories. The arguments to an
.B IGNORE
statement are simpler names or
expressions that cannot contain slashes. An
.B IGNORE
statement will not
override a
.B LIST
statement.
.B IGNORE
statements only exclude files
that are found beneath
.B LISTed
directories.
.sp
.LP
If the first name argument to a
.B LIST
statement begins with an
exclamation point  (`\fB!\fR'), the remainder of the statement will be
.RB "executed as a command. The command will be run in the current" " BASE"
directory. The output of the command will be treated as a  list of newline
separated file names to be packed/synchronized. The resulting file names
will be interpreted relative to the enclosing
.B BASE
directory.
.sp
.LP
If the first name argument to an
.B IGNORE
statement begins with an
exclamation point  (`\fB!\fR'), the remainder of the statement will be
.RB "executed as a command. The command will be run in the current" " BASE"
directory. The command will be expected to figure out which names should not
be synchronized. The output of the command will be treated as a list of
newline separated file names that should be excluded from the packing and
synchronization list.
.sp
.LP
Commands will be broken into distinct arguments and run directly with
.BR "sh -c" .
Blanks can be embedded in an argument by escaping them
with a backslash (`\fB\e\fR\&') or enclosing the argument in  double quotes
(` \fB"\fR '). Double quotes can be passed in arguments by escaping the
double quotes with a backslash (`\fB\e\fR\&').
.sp
.LP
.B LIST
lines only apply to the
.B BASE
statement that precedes
them.
.B IGNORE
lines can appear before any
.B BASE
statement (in
which case  they apply to all
.B BASEs)
or after a
.B BASE
statement
(in which case  they only apply to the
.B BASE
that precedes them). Any
number of  these statements can occur in any combination. The order is not
important.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample \fB$HOME\&.packingrules\fR file.
.sp
.LP
The use of these statements is illustrated in the following
\fB$HOME\&.packingrules\fR file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# junk files, not worth copying
#
IGNORE core *.o *.bak *%
#
# most of the stuff I want to keep in sync is in my $HOME
#
BASE /net/bigserver/export/home/myname $HOME
# everything in my work sub-directory should be maintained
LIST work
# a few of my favorite mail boxes should be replicated
LIST m/incoming
LIST m/action
LIST m/pending
#
# I like to carry around a couple of project directories
# but skip all the postscript output
#
BASE /net/bigserver/export/projects $HOME/projects
LIST poindexter epiphany
IGNORE *.ps
#
# the foonly package should always be kept on every machine
#
BASE /net/bigserver/opt/foonly /opt/foonly
LIST !cat .packinglist
#
# and the latest executables for the standard build environment
#
BASE /net/bigserver/export/buildenv $HOME/buildenv
LIST !find . -type f -a -perm -111 -a -print
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR file (1),
.BR filesync (1),
.BR cachefspack (1M)
