'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH platform 4 "19 Nov 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
platform \- directory of files specifying supported platforms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB\&.platform\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Solaris operating environment release includes the
.B
\&.platform
directory, a new directory on the Solaris CD image. This directory contains
files (created by Sun and Solaris OEMs) that define platform support. These
files are generically referred to as
.IR "platform definition files" .
They
provide a means to map different platform types into a platform group.
.sp
.LP
Platform definition files in the .platform directory are used by the
installation software to ensure that software appropriate for the
architecture of the system will be installed.
.sp
.LP
Sun provides a platform definition file named
.B \|.platform/Solaris
\&.
This file is the only one that can define platform groups to which other
platform definition files can refer. For example, an OEM platform definition
file can refer to any platform group specified in the Solaris platform
definition file.
.sp
.LP
Other platform definition files are delivered by OEMs. To avoid name
conflicts, OEMs will name their platform definition file with an OEM-unique
string. OEMs should use whatever string they use to make their package names
unique. This unique string is often the OEM's stock symbol.
.sp
.LP
Comments are allowed in a platform definition file. A "\fB#\fR" begins a
comment and can be placed anywhere on a line.
.sp
.LP
Platform definition files are composed of keyword-value pairs, and there
are two kinds of stanzas in the file: platform group definitions and
platform identifications.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Platform group definitions:
.sp
The keywords in a platform group definition stanza are:
.RS

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PLATFORM_GROUP
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The
.B PLATFORM_GROUP
keyword
.I must
be the first keyword in the
platform group definition stanza. The value assigned to this keyword is the
name of the platform group, for example:
.sp
PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4c
.sp
The
.B PLATFORM_GROUP
name is an arbitrary name assigned to a group of
platforms. However,
.B PLATFORM_GROUP
typically equals the output of the
.B uname -m
command.
.B PLATFORM_GROUP
value cannot have white
space and is limited to 256 ASCII characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B INST_ARCH
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The instruction set architecture of all platforms in the platform group,
for example:
.sp
INST_ARCH=sparc
.sp
The
.B INST_ARCH
keyword value must be the value returned by the
.B uname -p
command on all platforms in the platform group.
.RE

.RE

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Platform identifications:
.sp
The keywords in a platform identification stanza are:
.RS

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PLATFORM_NAME
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B PLATFORM_NAME
keyword
.I must
be the first keyword in the
platform identification stanza. The
.B PLATFORM_NAME
is the name assigned
to the platform, for example:
.sp
PLATFORM_NAME=SUNW,SPARCstation-5
.sp
Typically, this name is the same as the value returned by the \fBuname \fB-i\fRcommand on the machine, but it need not be the same.
.sp
The
.B PLATFORM_NAME
value cannot have white space and is limited to 256
ASCII characters. If it contains parentheses, it must contain only balanced
parentheses. For example. the string "foo(bar)foo" is a valid value for this
keyword, but "foo(bar" is not.
.sp
The other keywords in the platform identification stanza can be in any
order, as long as the
.B PLATFORM_NAME
keyword is first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PLATFORM_ID
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The value returned by the
.B "uname -i"
command on the machine, for
example:
.sp
PLATFORM_ID=SUNW,SPARCstation-5
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MACHINE_TYPE
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The value returned by the
.B "uname -m"
command on the machine, for
example:
.sp
MACHINE_TYPE=sun4c
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IN_PLATFORM_GROUP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The platform group of which the platform is a member, for example:
.sp
IN_PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4c
.sp
The platform group name must be specified in the same file as the platform
identification stanza or in the platform definition file with the name
\&\fB\|.platform/Solaris\fR .
.sp
The
.B IN_PLATFORM_GROUP
keyword is optional. A platform doesn't have to
belong to a platform group. If a platform is not explicitly assigned to a
platform group, it essentially forms its own platform group, where the
platform group name is the
.B PLATFORM_NAME
value. The
.B IN_PLATFORM_GROUP
value typically equals the output of the \fBuname
.B -m
command.
.B IN_PLATFORM_GROUP
value cannot have white space
and is limited to 256 ASCII characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B INST_ARCH
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The instruction set architecture of the platform, for example:
.sp
INST_ARCH=sparc
.sp
This field is only required if the platform does not belong to a platform
group. The
.B INST_ARCH
keyword value must be the value returned by the
.B uname -i
command on all platforms in the platform group.
.RE

.RE

.RE
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The installation program will remain compatible with the old Solaris CD
format. If a Solaris CD image does not contain any platform definition
files, the installation and upgrade programs will select the packages to be
installed based on machine type, that is, the value returned by the \fBuname
.B -p
command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Platform Group Definitions
.sp
.LP
The following example shows platform group definitions from the
\fB\&.platform/Solaris\fR platform definition file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4u
INST_ARCH=sparc
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Platform Identification Stanzas
.sp
.LP
The following example shows platform identification stanzas, which define
systems that belong in a platform group, from the \fB\&.platform/Solaris\fR
platform definition file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
PLATFORM_NAME=SUNW,SunFire
PLATFORM_ID=SUNW,SunFire
IN_PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4u
PLATFORM_NAME=SUNW,Ultra-80
PLATFORM_ID=SUNW,Ultra-80
IN_PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4u
#
PLATFORM_NAME=SUNW,SunFire
PLATFORM_ID=SUNW,SunFire
IN_PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4u
#
PLATFORM_NAME=SUNW,Ultra-80
PLATFORM_ID=SUNW,Ultra-80
IN_PLATFORM_GROUP=sun4u
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.platform\fR directory must reside as
/\fI\|cd_image\fB/Solaris_\fIvers\fB/.platform\fR, where
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cd_image
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Is the path to the mounted Solaris CD
.RB ( "/cdrom/cdrom0/s0 by default" )
or the path to a copy of the Solaris CD on a disk.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BI Solaris_ vers
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Is the version of Solaris, for example, Solaris_2.9.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Typically, a platform identification stanza contains either a
.B PLATFORM_ID
or a
.B MACHINE_TYPE
stanza, but not both.
.sp
.LP
If both are specified, both must match for a platform to be identified as
this platform type. Each platform identification stanza must contain either
a
.B PLATFORM_ID
value or a
.B MACHINE_TYPE
value. If a platform
matches two different platform identification stanzas\(emone which matched
on the value of
.B PLATFORM_ID
and one which matched on the value of
.B MACHINE_TYPE
, the one that matched on
.B PLATFORM_ID
will take
precedence.
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.platform\fR directory is part of the Solaris CD image, whether
that be the Solaris CD or a copy of the Solaris CD on a system's hard
disk.
