'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sbus 4 "31 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
sbus \- configuration files for SBus device drivers
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SBus
is a geographically addressed peripheral bus present on many
.B SPARC
hardware platforms.
.B SBus
devices are
.I self-identifying
\(em that is to say the
.B SBus
card itself
provides information to the system so that it can identify the device driver
that needs to be used. The device usually provides additional information to
the system in the form of name-value pairs that can be retrieved using the
.B DDI
property interfaces. See
.BR ddi_prop_op (9F)
for details.
.sp
.LP
The information is usually derived from a small Forth program stored in the
.B FCode PROM
on the card, so driver configuration files should be
completely unnecessary for these devices. However, on some occasions,
drivers for
.B SBus
devices may need to use driver configuration files to
augment the information provided by the
.B SBus
card. See
.BR driver.conf (4)
for further details.
.sp
.LP
When they are needed, configuration files for
.B SBus
device drivers
should identify the parent bus driver implicitly using the
.IR class
keyword. This removes the dependency on the particular bus driver involved
since this may be named differently on different platforms.
.sp
.LP
All bus drivers of class
.B sbus
recognise the following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B reg
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
An arbitrary length array where each element of the array consists of a
3-tuple of integers.  Each array element describes a logically contiguous
mappable resource on the
.BR SBus.
.sp
The first integer of each tuple specifies the slot number the card is
plugged into. The second integer of each 3-tuple specifies the offset in the
slot address space identified by the first element. The third integer of
each 3-tuple specifies the size in bytes of the mappable resource.
.sp
The driver can refer to the elements of this array by index, and construct
kernel mappings to these addresses using
.BR ddi_map_regs "(9F). The index"
into the array is passed as the
.I rnumber
argument of
.BR ddi_map_regs() .
.sp
You can use the
.B ddi_get*
and
.B ddi_put*
family of functions to
access register space from a high-level interrupt context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B interrupts
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
An arbitrary length array where each element of the array consists of a
single integer. Each array element describes a possible
.B SBus
interrupt
level that the device might generate.
.sp
The driver can refer to the elements of this array by index, and register
interrupt handlers with the system using
.BR ddi_add_intr "(9F). The index"
into the array is passed as the
.I inumber
argument of
.BR ddi_add_intr() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B registers
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
An arbitrary length array where each element of the array consists of a
3-tuple of integers.  Each array element describes a logically contiguous
mappable resource on the
.BR SBus.
.sp
The first integer of each tuple should be set to \fB\(mi1\fR, specifying
that any SBus slot may be matched. The second integer of each 3-tuple
specifies the offset in the slot address space identified by the first
element. The third integer of each 3-tuple specifies the size in bytes of
the mappable resoure.
.sp
The
.B registers
property can only be used to augment an incompletely
specified
.B reg
property with information from a driver configuration
file. It may only be specified in a driver configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All
.B SBus
devices must provide
.B reg
properties to the system. The
first two integer elements of the
.B reg
property are used to construct
the address part of the device name under
.BR /devices .
.sp
.LP
Only devices that generate interrupts need to provide
.BR interrupts
properties.
.sp
.LP
Occasionally, it may be necessary to override or augment the configuration
information supplied by the
.B SBus
device. This can be achieved by
writing a driver configuration file that describes a prototype device
information (devinfo) node specification, containing the additional
properties required.
.sp
.LP
For the system to merge the information, certain conditions must be met.
First, the
.B name
property must be the same. Second, either the first
two integers (slot number and offset) of the two
.B reg
properties must
be the same, or the second integer (offset) of the
.B reg
and
.B registers
properties must be the same.
.sp
.LP
In the event that the
.B SBus
card has no
.B reg
property at all, the
self-identifying information cannot be used, so all the details of the card
must be specified in a driver configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
A sample configuration file.
.sp
.LP
Here is a configuration file for an
.B SBus
card called
.BR SUNW,netboard .
The card already has a simple
.BR "FCode PROM"
that creates
.B name
and
.B reg
properties, and will have a complete
set of properties for normal use once the driver and firmware is complete.

.sp
.LP
In this example, we want to augment the properties given to us by the
firmware. We use the same
.B name
.RB "property, and use the" " registers"
property to match the firmware
.B reg
property. That way we don't have to
worry about which slot the card is really plugged into.

.sp
.LP
We want to add an
.B interrupts
property while we are developing the
firmware and driver so that we can start to experiment with interrupts. The
device can generate interrupts at
.B SBus
level 3. Additionally, we want
to set a
.B debug-level
property to 4.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# Copyright (c) 1992, by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#ident  "@(#)SUNW,netboard.conf         1.4     92/03/10 SMI"
#
name="SUNW,netboard" class="sbus"
	registers=-1,0x40000,64,-1,0x80000,1024
	interrupts=3 debug-level=4;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR ddi_add_intr (9F),
.BR ddi_map_regs (9F),
.BR ddi_prop_op (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The wildcarding mechanism of the
.B registers
property matches every
instance of the particular device attached to the system. This may not
always be what is wanted.
