'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2000, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH securenets 4 "26 Apr 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
securenets \- configuration file for NIS security
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/var/yp/securenets\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B /var/yp/securenets
file defines the networks or hosts which are
allowed access to information by the Network Information Service
("\fBNIS\fR").
.sp
.LP
The format of the file is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Lines beginning with the ``#'' character are treated as comments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Otherwise, each line contains two fields separated by white space.  The
first field is a netmask, the second a network.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The netmask field may be either
.B 255.255.255.255
(IPv4),
.B ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff
(IPv6) , or the string
``host'' indicating that the second field is a specific host to be allowed
access.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Both \fBypserv\fR(1M) and \fBypxfrd\fR(1M) use the \fB/var/yp/securenets\fR
file. The file is read when the  \fBypserv\fR(1M) and \fBypxfrd\fR(1M)
daemons begin. If
.B /var/yp/securenets
is present,
.BR ypserv (1M)
and
.BR ypxfrd (1M)
respond only to
.B IP
addresses in the range given. In
order for a change in the
.B /var/yp/securenets
file to take effect, you
must kill and restart any active daemons using
.BR ypstop "(1M) and"
.BR ypstart (1M).
.sp
.LP
An important thing to note for all the examples below is that the server
must be allowed to access itself. You accomplish this either by the server
being part of a subnet that is allowed to access the server, or by adding an
individual entry, as the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
hosts 127.0.0.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Access for Individual Entries
.sp
.LP
If individual machines are to be give access, the entry could be:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
255.255.255.255	192.9.1.20
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or

.sp
.in +2
.nf
host	192.0.1.20
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 2
Access for a Class C Network
.sp
.LP
If access is to be given to an entire class C network, the entry could
be:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
255.255.255.0	192.9.1.0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 3
Access for a Class B Network
.sp
.LP
The entry for access to a class B network could be:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
255.255.0.0	9.9.0.0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 4
Access for an Invidual IPv6 Address
.sp
.LP
Similarly, to allow access for an individual IPv6 address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff  fec0::111:abba:ace0:fba5e:1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or

.sp
.in +2
.nf
host  fec0::111:abba:ace0:fba5e:1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
.B Example 5
Access for all IPv6 Addresses Starting with fe80
.sp
.LP
To allow access for all IPv6 addresses starting with fe80:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ffff::  fe80::
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /var/yp/securenets
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Configuration file for
.B NIS
security.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ypserv (1M),
.BR ypstart (1M),
.BR ypstop (1M),
.BR ypxfrd (1M)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Network Information Service (NIS) was formerly known as Sun Yellow
Pages (YP).  The functionality of the two remains the same; only the name
has changed. The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United
Kingdom of British Telecommunications plc, and may not be used without
permission.
