'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH service_bundle 4 "6 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
service_bundle \- service manifest file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/share/lib/xml/dtd/service_bundle.dtd.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The service management facility, described in
.BR smf (5),
utilizes an
XML-based file format to marshal the description of a set of services or
service instances between systems. This file is known as a service bundle.
The primary form of a service bundle is the inventory of services that are
provided by a package, which is called a
.BR "service manifest" .
.sp
.LP
The DTD describing the
.B service_bundle
is provided at
.BR /usr/share/lib/xml/dtd/service_bundle.dtd.1 .
The attributes and tags
are fully described in the commented DTD. The services supplied with the
operating system, stored under
.BR /var/svc/manifest ,
provide examples of
correctly formed service descriptions.
.sp
.LP
.B service_bundle
documents can also use the XML Inclusions
.RB ( XInclude )
facility to merge multiple documents into one. A
.B service_bundle
document manipulator must therefore support the
functionality defined by the XInclude specification.
.sp
.LP
A complete service description consists of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of properties that identify the service and identify its restarter
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of properties that identify each instance
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of framework property groups that describe the framework's
understanding of each instance
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of method property groups as required by
.BR svc.startd "(1M), or by"
a delegated restarter
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Additional optional method property groups
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of dependency property groups
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional group of properties that indicate services to which
dependencies on the described service were added
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of application property groups or application-specific typed property
groups containing application configuration data
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A template that describes supporting information about this service, such
as a description, links to documentation, and metadata about property groups
and properties.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The document type definition for the service bundle provides markup to
define each of these aspects of a service description, as well as a number
of entities that identify regular features in describing a service, such as
the
.B <create_default_instance>
tag.
.SS "Manifest Handling During Packaging Operations"
.sp
.LP
Service manifests within packages should be identified with the class
.BR manifest .
Class action scripts that install and remove service
manifests are included in the packaging subsystem. When
.BR pkgadd (1M)
is
invoked, the service manifest is imported.
.sp
.LP
When
.BR pkgrm (1M)
is invoked, instances in the manifest that are
disabled are deleted. Any services in the manifest with no remaining
instances are also deleted.
.sp
.LP
If the
.B -R
option is supplied to
.BR pkgadd "(1M) or"
.BR pkgrm (1M),
the actions described in this section are done when the system is next
rebooted with that alternate root path.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR pkgadd (1M),
.BR pkgrm (1M),
.BR svcadm (1M),
.BR svccfg (1M),
.BR svc.startd (1M),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR locale (5),
.BR smf (5),
.BR smf_method (5),
.BR smf_template (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Nested
.B service_bundle
elements must be of the same type.
