'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH slpd.reg 4 "17 Nov 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
slpd.reg \- serialized registration file for the service location protocol
daemon (slpd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inet/slpd.reg\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The serialized registration file contains a group of registrations that
.BR slpd (1M)
registers when it starts. These registrations are primarily
for older service programs that do not internally support
.B SLP
and
cannot be converted. The character format of the registration file is
required to be
.BR ASCII .
To use serialized registrations, set the
\fBnet.slp.serializedRegURL\fR property  in
.BR slp.conf (4)
to point at a
valid
.B slpd.reg
file. The syntax of the serialized registration file,
in
.B ABNF
format (see
.IR "RFC 2234" ),
is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ser-file      =  reg-list
reg-list      =  reg / reg reg-list
reg           =  creg / ser-reg
creg          =  comment-line ser-reg
comment-line  =  ( "#" / ";" ) 1*allchar newline
ser-reg       =  url-props [slist] [attr-list] newline
url-props     =  surl "," lang "," ltime [ "," type ] newline
surl          =  ;The registration's URL. See
                 ; [8] for syntax.
lang          =  1*8ALPHA [ "-" 1*8ALPHA ]
                 ;RFC 1766 Language Tag see [6].
ltime         =  1*5DIGIT
                 ; A positive 16-bit integer
                 ; giving the lifetime
                 ; of the registration.
type          =  ; The service type name, see [7]
                 ; and [8] for syntax.
slist         =  "scopes" "=" scope-list newline
scope-list    =  scope-name / scope-name "," scope-list
scope         =  ; See grammar of [7] for
                 ; scope-name syntax.
attr-list     =  attr-def / attr-def attr-list
attr-def      =  ( attr / keyword ) newline
keyword       =  attr-id
attr          =  attr-id "=" attr-val-list
attr-id       =  ;Attribute id, see [7] for syntax.
attr-val-list =  attr-val / attr-val "," attr-val-list
attr-val      =  ;Attribute value, see [7] for syntax
allchar       =  char / WSP
char          =  DIGIT / ALPHA / other
other         =  %x21-%x2f / %x3a-%x40 /
                 %x5b-%x60 / %7b-%7e
                  ; All printable, nonwhitespace US-ASCII
                  ; characters.
newline       =  CR / ( CRLF )
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The syntax for attributes and attribute values requires that you use a
backslash to escape special characters, in addition to non-\fBASCII\fR
characters, as specified in
.IR "RFC 2608" .
The
.B slpd
command handles
serialized registrations exactly as if they were registered by an
.BR SA .
In the
.B url-props
production, the type token is optional. If the type
token is present for a service:
.BR URL ,
a warning is signalled, and the
type name is ignored. If the maximum lifetime of
.B 65535
seconds is
specified, the registration is taken to be permanent, and it is continually
refreshed by the
.B DA
or
.B SA
server until it exits.
.sp
.LP
Scopes can be included in a registration by including an attribute
definition with tag
.B scopes
followed by a comma-separated list of scope
names immediately after the
.B url-props
production. If the optional
\fBscope-list\fR is present, the registations are made in the indicated
.RB "scopes; otherwise, they are registered in the scopes with which the" " DA"
or
.B SA
server was configured through the
.BR net.slp.useScopes
property. If any conflicts occur between the scope list and the
\fBnet.slp.useScopes\fR property, an error message is issued by way of
.BR syslog (3C).
Refer to information regarding
.B LOG_INFO
in
.BR syslog (3C).
.sp
.LP
Service advertisements are separated by a single blank line. Additionally,
the file must end with a single blank line.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using a Serialized Registration File
.sp
.LP
The following serialized registration file shows an instance of the service
type
.BR foo ,
with a lifetime of
.B 65535
.RB "seconds, in the" " en"
locale, with scope
.BR somescope :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# register foo
service:foo://fooserver/foopath,en,65535
scopes=somescope
description=bogus
security=kerberos_v5
location=headquarters

# next registration...
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpr
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface Stability		Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Crocker, D. and Overell, P., \fIRFC 2234, Augmented BNF for Syntax
Specifications: ABNF\fR, The Internet Society, November 1997.
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M., \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR, The Internet Society, June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.,
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" ,
The
Internet Society, June 1999.
