'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH,
.\" the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright.
.\" If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere
.\" other than the default, modify the specified path to access the file
.\" at the installed location.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ssh_config 4 "20 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ssh_config \- ssh configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/ssh/ssh_config\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB$HOME/.ssh/config\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The first
.B ssh_config
path, above, provides the system-wide defaults
for
.BR ssh (1).
The second version is user-specific defaults for
.BR ssh .
.sp
.LP
.B ssh
obtains configuration data from the following sources, in this
order: command line options, user's configuration file
.RB ( $HOME/.ssh/config ),
and system-wide configuration file
.RB ( /etc/ssh/ssh_config ).
For each parameter, the first obtained value is
used. The configuration files contain sections bracketed by
.B Host
specifications, and that section is applied only for hosts that match one of
the patterns given in the specification. The matched host name is the one
given on the command line.
.sp
.LP
Since the first obtained value for each parameter is used, host-specific
declarations should be given near the beginning of the file, and general
defaults at the end.
.sp
.LP
The configuration file has the following format and syntax:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Empty lines and lines starting with
.B #
are comments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Non-commented lines are of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword\fR \fIarguments\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Configuration options can be separated by white space or optional
whitespace and exactly one equal sign. The latter format allows you to avoid
the need to quote white space when specifying configuration options using
the
.B -o
option to
.BR ssh ,
.BR scp ,
and
.BR sftp .
.RE
.sp
.LP
The possible keywords and their meanings are listed in the following
list.Keywords are case-insensitive and arguments are case-sensitive.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BatchMode
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
If set to
.BR yes ,
passphrase/password querying is disabled. This option is useful in scripts
and other batch jobs where you have no user to supply the password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B BindAddress
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the interface to transmit from on machines with multiple interfaces
or aliased addresses. This option does not work if
.B UsePrivilegedPort
is set to
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CheckHostIP
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this flag is set to
.BR yes ,
.B ssh
additionally checks the host IP
address in the
.B known_hosts
file. This allows
.B ssh
to detect if a
host key changed due to DNS spoofing. If the option is set to
.BR no ,
the
check is not executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Cipher
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the cipher to use for encrypting the session in protocol version
1. Only a single cipher can be specified. Currently,
.B "blowfish, 3des,"
and
.B des
are supported.
.B 3des
.RB (triple- des )
is an
encrypt-decrypt-encrypt triple with three different keys. It is believed to
be secure.
.B blowfish
is a fast block cipher. It appears very secure and
is much faster than
.BR 3des .
.B des
is only supported in the
.BR ssh
client for interoperability with legacy protocol 1 implementations that do
not support the
.B 3des
cipher. Its use is strongly discouraged due to
cryptographic weaknesses. The default is
.BR 3des .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Ciphers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the ciphers allowed for protocol version 2 in order of
preference. Multiple ciphers must be comma separated.
.sp
The default cipher list contains all supported ciphers in this order:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
aes128-ctr, aes192-ctr, aes256-ctr, arcfour128, arcfour256, arcfour, aes128-cbc,
aes192-cbc, aes256-cbc, arcfour, 3des-cbc,blowfish-cbc
.fi
.in -2
.sp

While CBC modes are not considered as secure as other modes in connection
with the SSH protocol 2 they are present at the back of the default client
cipher list for backward compatibility with SSH servers that do not support
other cipher modes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ClearAllForwardings
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that all local, remote, and dynamic port forwardings specified in
the configuration files or on the command line be cleared. This option is
primarily useful when used from the
.B ssh
command line to clear port
forwardings set in configuration files and is automatically set by
.BR scp (1)
and
.BR sftp (1).
The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Compression
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to use compression. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
Defaults to
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B CompressionLevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the compression level to use if compression is enabled. The
argument must be an integer from 1 (fast) to 9 (slow, best). The default
level is 6, which is good for most applications. This option applies to
protocol version 1 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ConnectionAttempts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of tries (one per second) to make before falling back
to
.B rsh
or exiting. The argument must be an integer. This can be useful
in scripts if the connection sometimes fails. The default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ConnectTimeout
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the timeout (in seconds) used when connecting to the
.B ssh
server, instead of using the default system TCP timeout. This value is used
only when the target is down or truly unreachable, not when it refuses the
connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DisableBanner
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If set to
.BR yes ,
disables the display of the banner message. If set to
.BR in-exec-mode ,
disables the display of banner message when in remote
command mode only.
.sp
The default value is
.BR no ,
which means that the banner is displayed
unless the log level is
.BR QUIET ,
.BR FATAL ,
or
.BR ERROR .
See also
the
.B Banner
option in
.BR sshd_config (4).
This option applies to
protocol version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DynamicForward
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that a TCP/IP port on the local machine be forwarded over the
secure channel. The application protocol is then used to determine where to
connect to from the remote machine.
.sp
The argument must be \fB[\fIbind_address\fB:]\fIport\fR. IPv6
addresses can be specified by enclosing addresses in square brackets or by
using an alternative syntax: \fB[\fIbind_address\fB/]\fIport\fR. By
default, the local port is bound in accordance with the
.B GatewayPorts
setting. However, an explicit
.I bind_address
can be used to bind the
connection to a specific address. The
.I bind_address
of
.BR localhost
indicates that the listening port be bound for local use only, while an
empty address or
.B *
indicates that the port should be available from
all interfaces.
.sp
Currently the
.B SOCKS4
and
.B SOCKS5
protocols are supported, and
.B ssh
acts as a
.B SOCKS
server. Multiple forwardings can be
specified and additional forwardings can be specified on the command line.
Only a user with enough privileges can forward privileged ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EscapeChar
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the escape character. The default is tilde
.RB ( ~ ).
The escape
character can also be set on the command line. The argument should be a
single character,
.BR ^ ,
followed by a letter, or
.B none
to disable
the escape character entirely (making the connection transparent for binary
data).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B FallBackToRsh
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that if connecting with
.B ssh
fails due to a connection
refused error (there is no
.BR sshd (1M)
listening on the remote host),
.BR rsh (1)
should automatically be used instead (after a suitable warning
about the session being unencrypted). The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ForwardAgent
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether the connection to the authentication agent (if any) is
forwarded to the remote machine. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
.sp
Agent forwarding should be enabled with caution. Users with the ability to
bypass file permissions on the remote host (for the agent's Unix-domain
socket) can access the local agent through the forwarded connection. An
attacker cannot obtain key material from the agent, however he can perform
operations on the keys that enable him to authenticate using the identities
loaded into the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ForwardX11
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether X11 connections are automatically redirected over the
secure channel and
.B DISPLAY
set. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
.sp
X11 forwarding should be enabled with caution. Users with the ability to
bypass file permissions on the remote host (for the user's X authorization
database) can access the local
.B X11
display through the forwarded
connection. An attacker might then be able to perform activities such as
keystroke monitoring. See the
.B ForwardX11Trusted
option for more
information how to prevent this.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ForwardX11Trusted
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this option is set to
.BR yes ,
remote X11 clients have full access to
the original X11 display. This option is set to
.B yes
by default.
.sp
If this option is set to
.BR no ,
remote X11 clients are considered
untrusted and prevented from stealing or tampering with data belonging to
trusted X11 clients. Furthermore, the
.BR xauth (1)
token used for the
session is set to expire after 20 minutes. Remote clients are refused access
after this time.
.sp
See the X11 SECURITY extension specification for full details on the
restrictions imposed on untrusted clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GatewayPorts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether remote hosts are allowed to connect to local forwarded
ports. By default,
.B ssh
binds local port forwardings to the loopback
address. This prevents other remote hosts from connecting to forwarded
ports.
.B GatewayPorts
can be used to specify that
.B ssh
should bind
local port forwardings to the wildcard address, thus allowing remote hosts
to connect to forwarded ports. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GlobalKnownHostsFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file to use instead of
.BR /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables GSS-API user authentication. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIDelegateCredentials
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables GSS-API credential forwarding. The default is
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIKeyExchange
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables GSS-API-authenticated key exchanges. The default is
.BR yes .
.sp
This option is intended primarily to allow users to disable the use of
GSS-API key exchange for SSHv2 when it would otherwise be selected and then
fail (due to server misconfiguration, for example). SSHv2 key exchange
failure always results in disconnection.
.sp
This option also enables the use of the GSS-API to authenticate the user to
the server after the key exchange. GSS-API key exchange can succeed but the
subsequent authentication using the GSS-API fail if the server does not
authorize the user's GSS principal name to the target user account.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HashKnownHosts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that
.BR ssh (1),
should hash host names and addresses when they
are added to
.BR ~/.ssh/known_hosts .
These hashed names can be used
normally by
.BR ssh (1)
and
.BR sshd "(1M), but they do not reveal"
identifying information should the file's contents be disclosed. The default
is
.BR no .
Existing names and addresses in known hosts files are not be
converted automatically, but can be manually hashed using
.BR ssh-keygen (1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Host
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restricts the following declarations (up to the next
.B Host
keyword) to
be only for those hosts that match one of the patterns given after the
.RB "keyword. An asterisk (" * ") and a question mark (" ? )
can be used as
wildcards in the patterns. A single asterisk as a pattern can be used to
provide global defaults for all hosts. The host is the host name argument
given on the command line (that is, the name is not converted to a
canonicalized host name before matching).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostbasedAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to try
.BR rhosts "-based authentication with public key"
authentication. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
This option applies to protocol version 2 only and is similar to
.BR RhostsRSAAuthentication .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostKeyAlgorithms
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the protocol version 2 host key algorithms that the client wants
to use in order of preference. The default for this option is:
.BR ssh-rsa,ssh-dss .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostKeyAlias
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alias that should be used instead of the real host name when
looking up or saving the host key in the host key database files. This
option is useful for tunneling
.B ssh
connections or for multiple servers
running on a single host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostName
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the real host name to log into. This can be used to specify
nicknames or abbreviations for hosts. Default is the name given on the
command line. Numeric IP addresses are also permitted (both on the command
line and in
.B HostName
specifications).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IdentityFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file from which the user's RSA or DSA authentication identity
is read. The default is
.B $HOME/.ssh/identity
for protocol version 1 and
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa
and
.B $HOME/.ssh/id_dsa
for protocol version 2.
Additionally, any identities represented by the authentication agent is used
for authentication. The file name can use the tilde syntax to refer to a
user's home directory. It is possible to have multiple identity files
specified in configuration files; all these identities is tried in
sequence.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IgnoreIfUnknown
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a comma-separated list of
.B ssh_config
parameters, which, if
unknown to
.BR ssh (1),
are to be ignored by
.BR ssh .
.sp
This parameter is primarily intended to be used in the per-user
.BR ssh_config ,
.BR ~/.ssh/config .
While this parameter can also be used
in the system wide
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_config
file, it is generally useless
as the capabilities of the
.BR ssh (1)
client on that host should match
that file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KeepAlive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether the system should send TCP keepalive messages to the
other side. If they are sent, death of the connection or crash of one of the
machines is properly noticed. However, this means that connections die if
the route is down temporarily, which can be a source of annoyance.
.sp
The default is
.B yes
(to send keepalives), which means the client
notices if the network goes down or the remote host dies. This is important
in scripts, and many users want it too. To disable keepalives, the value
should be set to
.B no
in both the server and the client configuration
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LocalForward
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that a TCP/IP port on the local machine be forwarded over the
.RI "secure channel to a given " host : port " from the remote machine. The"
first argument must be \fB[\fIbind_address\fB:]\fIport\fR and the
second must be \fIhost\fB:\fIport\fR. IPv6 addresses can be specified
by enclosing addresses in square brackets or by using an alternative syntax:
\fB[\fIbind_address\fB/]\fIport\fR and \fIhost\fB/\fIport\fR.
Multiple forwardings can be specified and additional forwardings can be
given on the command line. Only a user with enough privileges can forward
privileged ports. By default, the local port is bound in accordance with the
.B GatewayPorts
setting. However, an explicit
.I bind_address
can be
used to bind the connection to a specific address. The
.I bind_address
of
.I localhost
indicates that the listening port be bound for local use
only, while an empty address or
.B *
indicates that the port should be
available from all interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LogLevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gives the verbosity level that is used when logging messages from
.BR ssh .
The possible values are:
.BR FATAL ,
.BR ERROR ,
.BR QUIET ,
.BR INFO ,
.BR VERBOSE ,
.BR DEBUG ,
.BR DEBUG1 ,
.BR DEBUG2 ,
and
.BR DEBUG3 .
The default is
.BR INFO .
.B DEBUG
and
.B DEBUG1
are
equivalent.
.B DEBUG2
and
.B DEBUG3
each specify higher levels of
verbose output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MACs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the MAC (message authentication code) algorithms in order of
preference. The MAC algorithm is used in protocol version 2 for data
integrity protection. Multiple algorithms must be comma-separated. The
default is
.BR hmac-md5,hmac-sha1,hmac-sha1-96,hmac-md5-96 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NoHostAuthenticationForLocalhost
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option can be used if the home directory is shared across machines. In
this case
.B localhost
refers to a different machine on each of the
machines and the user gets many warnings about changed host keys. However,
this option disables host authentication for
.BR localhost .
The argument
to this keyword must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is to check the
host key for
.BR localhost .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NumberOfPasswordPrompts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of attempts before giving up for password and
keyboard-interactive methods. Attempts for each method are counted
separately. The argument to this keyword must be an integer. The default is
3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PasswordAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to use password authentication. The argument to this
keyword must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
This option applies to both protocol
versions 1 and 2. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Port
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port number to connect on the remote host. The default is
22.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PreferredAuthentications
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the order in which the client should try protocol 2
authentication methods. This allows a client to prefer one method (for
example,
.BR keyboard-interactive )
over another method (for example,
.BR password ).
The default for this option is:
.BR hostbased,publickey,keyboard-interactive,password .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Protocol
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the protocol versions
.B ssh
should support in order of
preference. The possible values are
.B 1
and
.BR 2 .
Multiple versions
must be comma-separated. The default is
.BR 2,1 .
This means that
.BR ssh
tries version 2 and falls back to version 1 if version 2 is not available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ProxyCommand
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the command to use to connect to the server. The command string
extends to the end of the line, and is executed with
.BR /bin/sh .
In the
command string,
.B %h
is substituted by the host name to connect and
.B %p
by the port. The string can be any valid command, and should read
from its standard input and write to its standard output. It should
eventually connect an
.BR sshd "(1M) server running on some machine, or"
execute
.B "sshd -i"
somewhere. Host key management is done using the
.B HostName
of the host being connected (defaulting to the name typed by
the user).
.B CheckHostIP
is not available for connects with a proxy
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PubkeyAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to try public key authentication. The argument to this
keyword must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR yes .
This option
applies to protocol version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RekeyLimit
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum amount of data that can be transmitted before the
session key is renegotiated. The argument is the number of bytes, with an
optional suffix of
.BR K ,
.BR M ,
or
.B G
to indicate Kilobytes,
Megabytes, or Gigabytes, respectively. The default is between
.B 1G
and
.BR 4G ,
depending on the cipher. This option applies to protocol version 2
only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RemoteForward
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that a TCP/IP port on the remote machine be forwarded over the
.RI "secure channel to a given " host : port " from the local"
machine. The first argument must be
\fB[\fIbind_address\fB:]\fIport\fR and the second argument must be
\fIhost\fB:\fIport\fR. IPv6 addresses can be specified by enclosing
addresses in square brackets or by using an alternative syntax:
\fB[\fIbind_address\fB/]\fIport\fR and \fIhost\fB/\fIport\fR.
You can specify multiple forwardings and give additional forwardings on the
command line. Only a user with enough privileges can forward privileged
ports.
.sp
If the
.I bind_address
is not specified, the default is to only bind to
loopback addresses. If the
.I bind_address
is
.B *
or an empty string,
then the forwarding is requested to listen on all interfaces. Specifying a
remote
.I bind_address
only succeeds if the server's
.B GatewayPorts
option is enabled. See
.BR sshd_config (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RhostsAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to try
.BR rhosts "-based authentication. This"
declaration affects only the client side and has no effect whatsoever on
security. Disabling
.B rhosts
authentication can reduce authentication
time on slow connections when
.B rhosts
authentication is not used. Most
servers do not permit
.B RhostsAuthentication
because it is not secure
(see
.BR RhostsRSAAuthentication ).
The argument to this keyword must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
This option applies only to the protocol version 1
and requires that
.B ssh
be
.B setuid
root and that
.B UsePrivilegedPort
be set to
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RhostsRSAAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to try
.BR rhosts "-based authentication with RSA host"
authentication. This is the primary authentication method for most sites.
The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
This option applies only to the
protocol version 1 and requires that
.B ssh
be
.B setuid
root and that
.B UsePrivilegedPort
be set to
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ServerAliveCountMax
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the number of server alive messages which can be sent without
.BR ssh (1)
receiving messages back from the server. If this threshold is
reached while server alive messages are being sent,
.B ssh
disconnects
from the server, terminating the session. The use of server alive messages
differs from
.BR TCPKeepAlive .
Server alive messages are sent through the
encrypted channel and are not spoofable. The TCP keep alive option enabled
by
.B TCPKeepAlive
is spoofable. The server alive mechanism is valuable
when the client or server depend on knowing when a connection has become
inactive.
.sp
The default value is 3. If, for example,
.B ServerAliveInterval
is set
to 15 and
.B ServerAliveCountMax
is left at the default,
.B ssh
disconnects in 45-60 seconds if the server becomes unresponsive. This option
applies to protocol version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ServerAliveInterval
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets a timeout interval in seconds after which if no data has been received
from the server,
.BR ssh (1)
sends a message through the encrypted channel
to request a response from the server. The default is 0, indicating that
these messages are not sent to the server. This option applies to protocol
version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B StrictHostKeyChecking
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If this flag is set to
.BR yes ,
.B ssh
never automatically adds host
keys to the
.B $HOME/.ssh/known_hosts
file, and refuses to connect hosts
whose host key has changed. This provides maximum protection against trojan
horse attacks. However, it can be a source of inconvenience if you do not
have good
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts
files installed and frequently
connect new hosts. This option forces the user to manually add any new
hosts. Normally this option is disabled, and new hosts are automatically
added to the known host files. The host keys of known hosts are verified
automatically in either case. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.B no
or
.BR ask .
The default is
.BR ask .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UseOpenSSLEngine
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B ssh
should use the OpenSSL PKCS#11 engine for
offloading cryptographic operations to the Cryptographic Framework.
Cryptographic operations are accelerated according to the available
installed plug-ins. When no suitable plug-ins are present this option does
not have an effect. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UsePrivilegedPort
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to use a privileged port for outgoing connections. The
argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR yes .
Setting
this option to
.B no
turns off
.B RhostsAuthentication
and
.BR RhostsRSAAuthentication .
If set to
.B "yes ssh"
must be
.B setuid
root. Defaults to
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B User
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the user to log in as. This can be useful if you have different
user names on different machines. This saves you the trouble of having to
remember to enter the user name on the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UserKnownHostsFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file to use instead of
.BR $HOME/.ssh/known_hosts .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UseRsh
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that
.B rlogin
or
.B rsh
should be used for this host. It
is possible that the host does not support the
.B ssh
protocol. This
causes
.B ssh
to immediately execute
.BR rsh (1).
All other options
(except
.BR HostName )
are ignored if this has been specified. The argument
must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B XAuthLocation
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the location of the
.BR xauth (1)
program. The default is
.BR /usr/openwin/bin/xauth .
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rsh (1),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-http-proxy-connect (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1),
.BR ssh-socks5-proxy-connect (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR sshd_config (4),
.BR kerberos (5)
.sp
.LP
.I RFC 4252
