'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sshd_config 4 "26 Mar 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
sshd_config \- sshd configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/ssh/sshd_config\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsshd\fR(1M) daemon reads configuration data from
.B /etc/ssh/sshd_config
(or the file specified with \fBsshd -f\fR
on the command line). The file contains keyword-value pairs, one per line. A
line starting with a hash mark (\fB#\fR) and empty lines are interpreted as
comments.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sshd_config
file supports the following keywords. Unless
otherwise noted, keywords and their arguments are case-insensitive.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AllowGroups
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword can be followed by a number of group names, separated by
spaces. If specified, login is allowed only for users whose primary group or
supplementary group list matches one of the patterns. Asterisk (\fB*\fR) and
question mark (\fB?\fR) can be used as wildcards in the patterns. Only group
names are valid; a numerical group ID is not recognized. By default, login
is allowed regardless of the primary group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AllowTcpForwarding
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether TCP forwarding is permitted. The default is
.BR yes .
Disabling TCP forwarding does not improve security unless users are also
denied shell access, as they can always install their own forwarders.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AllowUsers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword can be followed by a number of user names, separated by
spaces. If specified, login is allowed only for user names that match one of
the patterns. Asterisk (\fB*\fR) and question mark (\fB?\fR) can be used as
wildcards in the patterns. Only user names are valid; a numerical user ID is
not recognized. By default login is allowed regardless of the user name.
.sp
If a specified pattern takes the form \fIuser\fR@\fIhost\fR then \fIuser\fR
and
.I host
are checked separately, restricting logins to particular
users from particular hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B AuthorizedKeysFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the file that contains the public keys that can be used for user
authentication.
.B AuthorizedKeysFile
can contain tokens of the form
.BR %T ,
which are substituted during connection set-up. The following
tokens are defined:
.B %%
is replaced by a literal
.BR % ,
.B %h
is
replaced by the home directory of the user being authenticated and
.BR %u
is replaced by the username of that user. After expansion,
.B AuthorizedKeysFile
is taken to be an absolute path or one relative to
the user's home directory. The default is
.BR \&.ssh/authorized_keys .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Banner
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In some jurisdictions, sending a warning message before authentication can
be relevant for getting legal protection. The contents of the specified file
are sent to the remote user before authentication is allowed. This option is
only available for protocol version 2. By default, no banner is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ChrootDirectory
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a path to
.BR chroot (2)
to after authentication. This path, and
all its components, must be root-owned directories that are not writable by
any other user or group.
.sp
The server always tries to change to the user's home directory locally
under the chrooted environment but a failure to do so is not considered an
error. In addition, the path might contain the following tokens that are
expanded at runtime once the connecting user has been authenticated:
.B %%
is replaced by a literal
.BR % ,
.B %h
is replaced by the home
directory of the user being authenticated, and
.B %u
is replaced by the
username of that user.
.sp
The
.B ChrootDirectory
must contain the necessary files and directories
to support the user's session. For an interactive SSH session this requires
at least a user's shell, shared libraries needed by the shell, dynamic
linker, and possibly basic
.B /dev
nodes such as
.BR null ,
.BR zero ,
.BR stdin ,
.BR stdout ,
.BR stderr ,
.BR random ,
and
.BR tty .
Additionally, terminal databases are needed for screen oriented
applications. For file transfer sessions using
.B sftp
with the SSH
protocol version 2, no additional configuration of the environment is
necessary if the in-process \fBsftp\fR server is used. See \fBSubsystem\fR
for details.
.sp
The default is not to
.BR chroot (2).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Ciphers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the ciphers allowed for protocol version 2. Cipher ordering on
the server side is not relevant. Multiple ciphers must be comma separated.

.sp
Valid ciphers are: \fBaes128-ctr, aes192-ctr, aes256-ctr, aes128-cbc,
aes192-cbc, aes256-cbc, arcfour, arcfour128, arcfour256, 3des-cbc\fR, and
.BR blowfish-cbc .
.sp
The default cipher list is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
aes128-ctr,aes192-ctr,aes256-ctr,arcfour128,
arcfour256,arcfour
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Using CBC modes on the server side is not recommended due to potential
security issues in connection with the SSH protocol version 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ClientAliveCountMax
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the number of client alive messages, (see
.BR ClientAliveInterval ),
that can be sent without
.B sshd
receiving any messages back from the
client. If this threshold is reached while client alive messages are being
sent,
.B sshd
disconnects the client, terminating the session. The use of
client alive messages is very different from
.BR KeepAlive .
The client
alive messages are sent through the encrypted channel and therefore are not
spoofable. The TCP keepalive option enabled by
.B KeepAlive
is spoofable.
The client alive mechanism is valuable when a client or server depend on
knowing when a connection has become inactive.
.sp
The default value is 3. If
.B ClientAliveInterval
is set to 15, and
.B ClientAliveCountMax
is left at the default, unresponsive \fBssh\fR
clients are disconnected after approximately 45 seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ClientAliveInterval
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets a timeout interval in seconds after which, if no data has been
received from the client,
.B sshd
sends a message through the encrypted
channel to request a response from the client. The default is 0, indicating
that these messages are not sent to the client. This option applies only to
protocol version 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Compression
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls whether the server allows the client to negotiate the use of
compression. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DenyGroups
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Can be followed by a number of group names, separated by spaces. Users
whose primary group matches one of the patterns are not allowed to log in.
Asterisk (\fB*\fR) and question mark (\fB?\fR) can be used as wildcards in
the patterns. Only group names are valid; a numerical group ID is not
recognized. By default, login is allowed regardless of the primary group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DenyUsers
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Can be followed by a number of user names, separated by spaces. Login is
disallowed for user names that match one of the patterns. Asterisk (\fB*\fR)
and question mark (\fB?\fR) can be used as wildcards in the patterns. Only
user names are valid; a numerical user ID is not recognized. By default,
login is allowed regardless of the user name.
.sp
If a specified pattern takes the form \fIuser\fR@\fIhost\fR then \fIuser\fR
and
.I host
are checked separately, disallowing logins to particular
users from particular hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GatewayPorts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether remote hosts are allowed to connect to ports forwarded
for the client. By default,
.B sshd
binds remote port forwardings to the
loopback address. This prevents other remote hosts from connecting to
forwarded ports.
.B GatewayPorts
can be used to specify that
.BR sshd
should bind remote port forwardings to the wildcard address, thus allowing
remote hosts to connect to forwarded ports.
.sp
The argument can be
.B no
to force remote port forwardings to be
available to the local host only,
.B yes
to force remote port forwardings
to bind to the wildcard address, or
.B clientspecified
to allow the
client to select the address to which the forwarding is bound. The default
is
.BR no .
See also
.B RemoteForward
in
.BR ssh_config (4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables GSS-API user authentication. The default is
.BR yes .
.sp
Currently
.B sshd
authorizes client user principals to user accounts as
follows: if the principal name matches the requested user account, then the
principal is authorized. Otherwise, GSS-API authentication fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIKeyExchange
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables GSS-API-authenticated key exchanges. The default is
.BR yes .
.sp
This option also enables the use of the GSS-API to authenticate the user to
server after the key exchange. GSS-API key exchange can succeed but the
subsequent authentication using the GSS-API fail if the server does not
authorize the user's GSS principal name to the target user account.
.sp
Currently
.B sshd
authorizes client user principals to user accounts as
follows: if the principal name matches the requested user account, then the
principal is authorized. Otherwise, GSS-API authentication fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B GSSAPIStoreDelegatedCredentials
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables/disables the use of delegated GSS-API credentials on the
server-side. The default is
.BR yes .
.sp
Specifically, this option, when enabled, causes the server to store
delegated GSS-API credentials in the user's default GSS-API credential store
(which for the Kerberos V mechanism means \fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fI<uid>\fR).
.LP
Note -
.sp
.RS 2
.B sshd
does not take any steps to explicitly destroy stored delegated
GSS-API credentials upon logout. It is the responsibility of PAM modules to
destroy credentials associated with a session.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostbasedAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether to try
.BR rhosts "-based authentication with public key"
authentication. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
This option applies to protocol version 2 only and is similar to
.BR RhostsRSAAuthentication .
See \fBsshd\fR(1M) for guidelines on setting
up host-based authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostbasedUsesNameFromPacketOnly
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls which hostname is searched for in the files
.BR ~/.shosts ,
.BR /etc/shosts.equiv ,
and
.BR /etc/hosts.equiv .
If this parameter is
set to
.BR yes ,
the server uses the name the client claimed for itself and
signed with that host's key. If set to
.BR no ,
the default, the server
uses the name to which the client's IP address resolves.
.sp
Setting this parameter to
.B no
disables host-based authentication when
using NAT or when the client gets to the server indirectly through a
port-forwarding firewall.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B HostKey
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the file containing the private host key used by SSH. The default
is
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_host_key
for protocol version 1, and
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key
and
.B /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key
for
protocol version 2.
.B sshd
refuses to use a file if it is
group/world-accessible. It is possible to have multiple host key files.
.B rsa1
keys are used for version 1 and
.B dsa
or
.B rsa
are used
for version 2 of the SSH protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IgnoreRhosts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that \fB\&.rhosts\fR and \fB\&.shosts\fR files are not used in
authentication.
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B /etc/shosts.equiv
are still
used. The default is
.BR yes .
This parameter applies to both protocol
versions 1 and 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IgnoreUserKnownHosts
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should ignore the user's
.B $HOME/.ssh/known_hosts
during
.BR RhostsRSAAuthentication .
The
default is
.BR no .
This parameter applies to both protocol versions 1 and
2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KbdInteractiveAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether authentication by means of the "keyboard-interactive"
authentication method (and PAM) is allowed. Defaults to
.BR yes .
(Deprecated: this parameter can only be set to
.BR yes .)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KeepAlive
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether the system should send keepalive messages to the other
side. If they are sent, death of the connection or crash of one of the
machines is properly noticed. However, this means that connections die if
the route is down temporarily, which can be an annoyance. On the other hand,
if keepalives are not sent, sessions can hang indefinitely on the server,
leaving ghost users and consuming server resources.
.sp
The default is
.B yes
(to send keepalives), and the server notices if
the network goes down or the client host reboots. This avoids infinitely
hanging sessions.
.sp
To disable keepalives, the value should be set to
.B no
in both the
server and the client configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B KeyRegenerationInterval
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In protocol version 1, the ephemeral server key is automatically
regenerated after this many seconds (if it has been used). The purpose of
regeneration is to prevent decrypting captured sessions by later breaking
into the machine and stealing the keys. The key is never stored anywhere. If
the value is 0, the key is never regenerated. The default is 3600
(seconds).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ListenAddress
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies what local address
.B sshd
should listen on. The following
forms can be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ListenAddress \fIhost\fR|\fIIPv4_addr\fR|\fIIPv6_addr\fR
ListenAddress \fIhost\fR|\fIIPv4_addr\fR:\fIport\fR
ListenAddress [\fIhost\fR|\fIIPv6_addr\fR]:\fIport\fR
.fi
.in -2

If
.I port
is not specified,
.B sshd
listens on the address and all
prior
.B Port
options specified. The default is to listen on all local
addresses. Multiple
.B ListenAddress
options are permitted. Additionally,
any
.B Port
options must precede this option for non-port qualified
addresses.
.sp
The default is to listen on all local addresses. Multiple options of this
type are permitted. Additionally, the
.B Ports
options must precede this
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LoginGraceTime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server disconnects after this time (in seconds) if the user has not
successfully logged in. If the value is 0, there is no time limit. The
default is 120 (seconds).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LogLevel
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gives the verbosity level that is used when logging messages from
.BR sshd .
The possible values are:
.BR QUIET ,
.BR FATAL ,
.BR ERROR ,
.BR INFO ,
.BR VERBOSE ,
.BR DEBUG ,
.BR DEBUG1 ,
.BR DEBUG2 ,
and
.BR DEBUG3 .
The default is
.BR INFO .
DEBUG2 and DEBUG3 each specify
higher levels of debugging output. Logging with level
.B DEBUG
violates
the privacy of users and is not recommended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B LookupClientHostnames
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether or not to lookup the names of client's addresses.
Defaults to yes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MACs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the available MAC (message authentication code) algorithms. The
MAC algorithm is used in protocol version 2 for data integrity protection.
Multiple algorithms must be comma-separated. The default is
.BR hmac-md5,hmac-sha1,hmac-sha1-96,hmac-md5-96 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B MaxStartups
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum number of concurrent unauthenticated connections to
the
.B sshd
daemon. Additional connections are dropped until
authentication succeeds or the
.B LoginGraceTime
expires for a
connection. The default is
.BR 10 .
.sp
Alternatively, random early drop can be enabled by specifying the three
colon-separated values \fIstart\fR:\fIrate\fR:\fIfull\fR (for example,
.BR 10:30:60 ).
Referring to this example,
.B sshd
refuse connection
attempts with a probability of \fIrate\fR/100 (30% in our example) if there
are currently 10 (from the
.I start
field) unauthenticated connections.
The probability increases linearly and all connection attempts are refused
if the number of unauthenticated connections reaches
.I full
(60 in our
example).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PasswordAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether password authentication is allowed. The default is
.BR yes .
This option applies to both protocol versions 1 and 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PermitEmptyPasswords
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When password or keyboard-interactive authentication is allowed, it
specifies whether the server allows login to accounts with empty password
strings.
.sp
If not set then the
.B "/etc/default/login PASSREQ"
value is used
instead.
.sp
.B PASSREQ=no
is equivalent to
.BR "PermitEmptyPasswords yes" .
.B PASSREQ=yes
is equivalent to
.BR "PermitEmptyPasswords no" .
If neither
.B PermitEmptyPasswords
or
.B PASSREQ
are set the default is
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PermitRootLogin
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether the root can log in using
.BR ssh (1).
The argument must
be
.BR yes ,
.BR without-password ,
.BR forced-commands-only ,
or
.BR no .
.B without-password
means that root cannot be authenticated
using the "password" or "keyboard-interactive" methods (see description of
.BR KbdInteractiveAuthentication ).
.B forced-commands-only
means that
authentication is allowed only for
.B publickey
(for SSHv2, or RSA, for
SSHv1) and only if the matching \fBauthorized_keys entry\fR for root has a
\fBcommand=\fI<cmd>\fR option.
.sp
In Solaris, the default
.B /etc/ssh/sshd_config
file is shipped with
.B PermitRootLogin
set to
.BR no .
If unset by the administrator, then
.B CONSOLE
parameter from
.B /etc/default/login
supplies the default
value as follows: if the
.B CONSOLE
parameter is not commented out (it
can even be empty, that is, "\fBCONSOLE=\fR"), then \fBwithout-password\fR
is used as default value. If
.B CONSOLE
is commented out, then the
default for
.B PermitRootLogin
is
.BR yes .
.sp
The
.B without-password
and
.B forced-commands-only
settings are
useful for, for example, performing remote administration and backups using
trusted public keys for authentication of the remote client, without
allowing access to the root account using passwords.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PermitUserEnvironment
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether a user's
.B ~/.ssh/environment
on the server side and
.B environment
options in the
.B AuthorizedKeysFile
file are processed
by
.BR sshd .
The default is
.BR no .
Enabling environment processing can
enable users to bypass access restrictions in some configurations using
mechanisms such as
.BR LD_PRELOAD .
.sp
Environment setting from a relevant entry in
.B AuthorizedKeysFile
file
is processed only if the user was authenticated using the public key
authentication method. Of the two files used, values of variables set in
.B ~/.ssh/environment
are of higher priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PidFile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows you to specify an alternative to
.BR /var/run/sshd.pid ,
the
default file for storing the PID of the
.B sshd
listening for
connections. See
.BR sshd (1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Port
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port number that
.B sshd
listens on. The default is 22.
Multiple options of this type are permitted. See also
.BR ListenAddress .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PrintLastLog
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should display the date and time when the user
last logged in. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PrintMotd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should display the contents of
.BR /etc/motd
when a user logs in interactively. (On some systems it is also displayed by
the shell or a shell startup file, such as
.BR /etc/profile .)
The default
is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Protocol
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the protocol versions
.B sshd
should support in order of
preference. The possible values are
.B 1
and
.BR 2 .
Multiple versions
must be comma-separated. The default is
.BR 2,1 .
This means that
.BR ssh
tries version 2 and falls back to version 1 if version 2 is not available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PubkeyAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether public key authentication is allowed. The default is
.BR yes .
This option applies to protocol version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RhostsAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether authentication using
.B rhosts
or
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
files is sufficient. Normally, this method should not
be permitted because it is insecure.
.B RhostsRSAAuthentication
should be
used instead, because it performs RSA-based host authentication in addition
to normal
.B rhosts
or
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
authentication. The default
is
.BR no .
This parameter applies only to protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RhostsRSAAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B rhosts
or
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
authentication
together with successful RSA host authentication is allowed. The default is
.BR no .
This parameter applies only to protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B RSAAuthentication
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether pure RSA authentication is allowed. The default is
.BR yes .
This option applies to protocol version 1 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ServerKeyBits
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines the number of bits in the ephemeral protocol version 1 server key.
The minimum value is 512, and the default is 768.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B StrictModes
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should check file modes and ownership of the
user's files and home directory before accepting login. This is normally
desirable because novices sometimes accidentally leave their directory or
files world-writable. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Subsystem
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configures an external subsystem (for example, a file transfer daemon).
Arguments should be a subsystem name and a command to execute upon subsystem
request. The command \fBsftp-server\fR(1M) implements the \fBsftp\fR file
transfer subsystem.
.sp
Alternately, the name
.B internal-sftp
implements an in-process
.B sftp
server. This can simplify configurations using
.B ChrootDirectory
to force a different filesystem root on clients.
.sp
By default, no subsystems are defined. This option applies to protocol
version 2 only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SyslogFacility
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gives the facility code that is used when logging messages from
.BR sshd .
The possible values are:
.BR DAEMON ,
.BR USER ,
.BR AUTH ,
.BR LOCAL0 ,
.BR LOCAL1 ,
.BR LOCAL2 ,
.BR LOCAL3 ,
.BR LOCAL4 ,
.BR LOCAL5 ,
.BR LOCAL6 ,
and
.BR LOCAL7 .
The default is
.BR AUTH .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B UseOpenSSLEngine
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should use the OpenSSL PKCS#11 engine for
offloading cryptographic operations to the Cryptographic Framework.
Cryptographic operations are accelerated according to the available
installed plug-ins. When no suitable plug-ins are present this option does
not have an effect. The default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B VerifyReverseMapping
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should try to verify the remote host name and
check that the resolved host name for the remote IP address maps back to the
very same IP address. (A \fByes\fR setting means "verify".) Setting this
parameter to
.B no
can be useful where DNS servers might be down and thus
cause
.B sshd
to spend much time trying to resolve the client's IP
address to a name. This feature is useful for Internet-facing servers. The
default is
.BR no .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X11DisplayOffset
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the first display number available for
.BR sshd "'s X11"
forwarding. This prevents
.B sshd
from interfering with real X11 servers.
The default is 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X11Forwarding
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether X11 forwarding is permitted. The default is
.BR yes .
Disabling X11 forwarding does not improve security in any way, as users can
always install their own forwarders.
.sp
When X11 forwarding is enabled, there can be additional exposure to the
server and to client displays if the
.B sshd
proxy display is configured
to listen on the wildcard address (see
.BR X11UseLocalhost ).
However, this
is not the default. Additionally, the authentication spoofing and
authentication data verification and substitution occur on the client side.
The security risk of using X11 forwarding is that the client's X11 display
server can be exposed to attack when the
.B ssh
client requests
forwarding (see the warnings for
.B ForwardX11
in
.BR ssh_config (4)).
A
system administrator who wants to protect clients that expose themselves to
attack by unwittingly requesting X11 forwarding, should specify a \fBno\fR
setting.
.sp
Disabling X11 forwarding does not prevent users from forwarding X11
traffic, as users can always install their own forwarders.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B X11UseLocalhost
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should bind the X11 forwarding server to the
loopback address or to the wildcard address. By default,
.B sshd
binds
the forwarding server to the loopback address and sets the hostname part of
the
.B DISPLAY
environment variable to
.BR localhost .
This prevents
remote hosts from connecting to the proxy display. However, some older X11
clients might not function with this configuration. \fBX11UseLocalhost\fR
can be set to
.B no
to specify that the forwarding server should be bound
to the wildcard address. The argument must be
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The
default is
.BR yes .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B XAuthLocation
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the location of the
.BR xauth (1)
program. The default is
.B /usr/X11/bin/xauth
and
.B sshd
attempts to open it when X11
forwarding is enabled.
.RE

.SS "Time Formats"
.sp
.LP
.B sshd
command-line arguments and configuration file options that
specify time can be expressed using a sequence of the form:
\fItime\fR[\fIqualifier\fR,] where \fItime\fR is a positive integer value
and
.I qualifier
is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I <none>
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
seconds
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B s
|
.B S
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
seconds
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B m
|
.B M
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B h
|
.B H
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
hours
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B d
|
.B D
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
days
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.BR w " |"
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
weeks
.RE

.sp
.LP
Each element of the sequence is added together to calculate the total time
value. For example:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 600
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
600 seconds (10 minutes)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 10m
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
10 minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1h30m
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
1 hour, 30 minutes (90 minutes)
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ssh/sshd_config
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Contains configuration data for
.BR sshd .
This file should be writable by
root only, but it is recommended (though not necessary) that it be
world-readable.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR login (1),
.BR sshd (1M),
.BR chroot (2),
.BR ssh_config (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR kerberos (5)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
OpenSSH is a derivative of the original and free
.B ssh
1.2.12 release
by Tatu Ylonen. Aaron Campbell, Bob Beck, Markus Friedl, Niels Provos, Theo
de Raadt, and Dug Song removed many bugs, re-added recent features, and
created OpenSSH. Markus Friedl contributed the support for SSH protocol
versions 1.5 and 2.0. Niels Provos and Markus Friedl contributed support for
privilege separation.
