'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH timezone 4 "18 Feb 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
timezone \- default timezone data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/timezone\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The timezone file contains information regarding the default timezone for
each host in a domain. Alternatively, a single default line for the entire
domain may be specified. Each entry has the format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fITimezone-name    official-host-or-domain-name\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or TAB characters. A `#'
indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the end of the line
are not interpreted by routines which search the file. The timezone is a
pathname relative to the directory
.BR /usr/share/lib/zoneinfo .
.sp
.LP
This file is not actually referenced by any system software; it is merely
used as a source file to construct the
.B "NIS timezone.byname"
map.
This map is read by
.BR sysidtool (1M)
to initialize the timezone of the
client system at installation time. For more information, see the
.IR "Solaris Express Installation Guide: Basic Installations" .
.sp
.LP
The
.B timezone
file does not set the timezone environment variable
.BR TZ .
See
.BR TIMEZONE (4)
for information to set the
.BR TZ
environment variable.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Typical timezone line
.sp
.LP
Here is a typical line from the
.B /etc/timezone
file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
US/Eastern          East.Sun.COM #Sun East Coast
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/timezone
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sysidtool (1M),
.BR TIMEZONE (4)
.sp
.LP
.I "Solaris Express Installation Guide: Basic Installations
