'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ttydefs 4 "27 Jan 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ttydefs \- file contains terminal line settings information for ttymon
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/ttydefs
is an administrative file that contains records divided
into fields by colons (":").   This information used by
.B
ttymon
to set
up the speed and terminal settings for a TTY port.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ttydefs
file contains the following fields:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ttylabel
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The string
.B ttymon
.RI "tries to match against the TTY port's" " ttylabel"
field in the port monitor administrative file. It often describes the speed
at which the terminal is supposed to run, for example,
.BR 1200 .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I initial-flags
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Contains the initial
.BR termio "(7I) settings to which the terminal is to"
be set. For example, the system administrator will be able to specify what
the default erase and kill characters will be.
.I initial-flags
must be
specified in the syntax recognized by the
.B stty
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I final-flags
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
.I final-flags
must be specified in the same format as
.IR initial-flags .
.B ttymon
sets these final settings after a
connection request has been made and immediately prior to invoking a port's
service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I autobaud
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
If the autobaud field contains the character 'A,' autobaud will  be enabled.
Otherwise, autobaud will be disabled.
.B ttymon
determines what line speed
to set the TTY port to by analyzing the carriage returns entered. If autobaud
has been disabled, the hunt sequence is used for baud rate determination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I nextlabel
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
If the user indicates that the current terminal setting is not appropriate
by sending a BREAK,
.B ttymon
searchs for a
.B ttydefs
entry whose
.I ttylabel
field matches  the
.I nextlabel
field. If a match is found,
.B ttymon
uses that field as its
.I ttylabel
field. A series of speeds
is often linked together in this way into a closed set called a hunt
sequence. For example,
.B 4800
may be linked to
.BR 1200 ,
which in turn
is linked to
.BR 2400 ,
which is finally linked to
.BR 4800 .
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sttydefs (1M),
.BR ttymon (1M),
.BR termio (7I)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Basic Administration
