'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ttysrch 4 "23 Feb 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ttysrch \- directory search list for ttyname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBttysrch\fR is an optional file that is used by the \fBttyname\fR library
routine. This file contains the names of directories in
.B /dev
that
contain terminal and terminal-related device files. The purpose of this file
is to improve the performance of
.B ttyname
by indicating which
subdirectories in
.B /dev
contain terminal-related device files and
should be searched first. These subdirectory names must appear on separate
lines and must begin with
.BR /dev .
Those path names that do not begin
with
.B /dev
will be ignored and a warning will be sent to the console.
Blank lines (lines containing only white space) and lines beginning with the
comment character "#" will be ignored. For each file listed (except for the
special entry
.BR /dev ),
\fBttyname\fR will recursively search through
subdirectories looking for a match. If
.B /dev
appears in the
\fBttysrch\fR file, the \fB/dev\fR directory itself will be searched but
there will not be a recursive search through its subdirectories.
.sp
.LP
When
.B ttyname
searches through the device files, it tries to find a
file whose major/minor device number, file system identifier, and inode
number match that of the file descriptor it was given as an argument. If a
match is not found, it will settle for a match of just major/minor device
and file system identifier, if one can be found. However, if the file
descriptor is associated with a cloned device, this algorithm does not work
efficiently because the inode number  of the device file associated with a
clonable device will never match the inode number of the file descriptor
that was returned by the open of that clonable device. To help with these
situations, entries can be put into the
.B /etc/ttysrch
file to improve
performance when cloned devices are used as terminals on a system (for
example, for remote login). However, this is only useful if the minor
devices related to a cloned device are put into a subdirectory. (It is
important to note that device files need not exist for cloned devices and if
that is the case,
.B ttyname
will eventually fail.) An optional second
field is used in the
.B /etc/ttysrch
file to indicate the matching
criteria. This field is separated by white space (any combination of blanks
or tabs). The letter
.B M
means major/minor device number,
.B F
means
file system identifier, and
.B I
means inode number. If this field is not
specified for an entry, the default is
.B MFI
which means try to match on
all three. For cloned devices the field should be
.BR MF ,
which indicates
that it is not necessary to match on the inode number.
.sp
.LP
Without the
.B /etc/ttysrch
file,
.B ttyname
will search the
\fB/dev\fR directory by first looking in the directories
.BR /dev/term ,
.BR /dev/pts ,
and
.BR /dev/xt .
If a system has terminal devices
installed in directories other than these, it may help performance if the
\fBttysrch\fR file is created and contains that list of directories.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR A sample display of \fB/etc/ttysrch\fR command.
.sp
.LP
A sample
.B /etc/ttysrch
file follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/term     MFI
/dev/pts      MFI
/dev/xt       MFI
/dev/slan     MF
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This file tells
.B ttyname
that it should first search through those
directories listed  and that when searching through the
.BR /dev/slan
directory, if a file is encountered whose major/minor devices and file
system identifier match that of the file descriptor argument to
.BR ttyname ,
this device name should be considered a match.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/ttysrch
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ttyname (3C)
