'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH user_attr 4 "12 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
user_attr \- extended user attributes database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/user_attr\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/user_attr\fR is a local source of extended attributes associated
with users and roles.
.B user_attr
can be used with other user attribute
.RB "sources, including the LDAP people container, the" " user_attr NIS"
map, and the
.B "user_attr NIS+"
table. Programs use the
.BR getuserattr (3SECDB)
routines to gain access to this information.
.sp
.LP
The search order for multiple
.B user_attr
sources is specified in the
\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file, as described in the \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4)
man page. The search order follows that for \fBpasswd\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the
.B user_attr
databases consists of a single line with
five fields separated by colons
.RB ( : ).
Line continuations using the
backslash (\fB\e\fR) character are permitted. Each entry has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIuser\fR:\fIqualifier\fR:\fIres1\fR:\fIres2\fR:\fIattr\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the user as specified in the
.BR passwd (4)
database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIqualifier\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I res1
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I res2
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I attr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An optional list of semicolon-separated (\fB;\fR) key-value pairs that
describe the security attributes to apply to the object upon execution. Zero
or more keys may be specified. The following keys are currently interpreted
by the system:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auths
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a comma-separated list of authorization names chosen from those
names defined in the
.BR auth_attr (4)
database. Authorization names may be
specified using the asterisk (\fB*\fR) character as a wildcard. For example,
\fBsolaris.printer.*\fR means all of Sun's printer authorizations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBprofiles\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains an ordered, comma-separated list of profile names chosen from
\fBprof_attr\fR(4). Profiles are enforced by the profile shells,
\fBpfcsh\fR,
.BR pfksh ,
and
.BR pfsh .
See
.BR pfsh (1).
A default
profile is assigned in \fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR (see
\fBpolicy.conf\fR(4)). If no profiles are assigned, the profile shells do
not allow the user to execute any commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B roles
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Can be assigned a comma-separated list of role names from the set of user
accounts in this database whose
.B type
field indicates the account is a
role. If the
.B roles
key value is not specified, the user is not
permitted to assume any role.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B type
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Can be assigned one of these strings:
.BR normal ,
indicating that this
account is for a normal user, one who logs in; or
.BR role ,
indicating
that this account is for a role. Roles can only be assumed by a normal user
after the user has logged in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B project
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Can be assigned a name of one project from the
.BR project (4)
database to
be used as a default project to place the user in at login time. For more
information, see \fBgetdefaultproj\fR(3PROJECT).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdefaultpriv\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default set of privileges assigned to a user's inheritable set upon
login. See "Privileges Keywords," below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B limitpriv
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum set of privileges a user or any process started by the user,
whether through
.BR su "(1M) or any other means, can obtain. The system"
administrator must take extreme care when removing privileges from the limit
set. Removing any basic privilege has the ability of crippling all
applications; removing any other privilege can cause many or all
applications requiring privileges to malfunction. See "Privileges Keywords,"
below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBlock_after_retries\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether an account is locked after the count of failed logins for
a user equals or exceeds the allowed number of retries as defined by
\fBRETRIES\fR in
.BR /etc/default/login .
Possible values are
.B yes
or
.BR no .
The default is
.BR no .
Account locking is applicable only to
local accounts.
.RE

The following keys are available only if the system is configured with the
Trusted Extensions feature:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B idletime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains a number representing the maximum number of minutes a workstation
can remain idle before the Trusted Extensions
.B CDE
window manager
attempts the task specified in
.BR idlecmd .
A zero in this field specifies
that the
.B idlecmd
command is never executed. If unspecified, the
default
.B idletime
of 30 minutes is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B idlecmd
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains one of two keywords that the Trusted Extensions
.B CDE
window
manager interprets when a workstation is idle for too long. The keyword
\fBlock\fR specifies that the workstation is to be locked (thus requiring
.RB "the user to re-authenticate to resume the session). The keyword" " logout"
specifies that session is to be terminated (thus, killing the user's
processes launched in the current session). If unspecified, the default
value,
.BR lock ,
is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B clearance
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the maximum label at which the user can operate. If unspecified,
in the Defense Intelligence Agency (\fBDIA\fR) encodings scheme, the default
is specified in
.BR label_encodings (4)
(see
.BR label_encodings (4)
and
.BR labels (5)
in the \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Reference Manual\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B min_label
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the minimum label at which the user can log in. If unspecified, in
the
.B DIA
encodings scheme, the default is specified in
.BR label_encodings (4)
(see
.BR label_encodings (4)
and
.BR labels (5)
in the \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Reference Manual\fR).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
Except for the \fBtype\fR key, the \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR fields in
\fB/etc/user_attr\fR can be added using \fBroleadd\fR(1M) and
.BR useradd (1M).
You can use
.BR rolemod "(1M) and"
.BR usermod (1M)
to
modify \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR fields in \fB/etc/user_attr\fR.
Modification of the
.B type
key is restricted as described in
\fBrolemod\fR and \fBusermod\fR.
.SS "Privileges Keywords"
.sp
.LP
The \fBdefaultpriv\fR and
.B limitpriv
are the privileges-related
keywords and are described above.
.sp
.LP
See
.BR privileges (5)
for a description of privileges. The command
\fBppriv -l\fR (see
.BR ppriv (1))
produces a list of all supported
privileges. Note that you specify privileges as they are displayed by
.BR ppriv .
In
.BR privileges (5),
privileges are listed in the form
\fBPRIV_\fI<privilege_name>\fR\&. For example, the privilege
\fBfile_chown\fR, as you would specify it in
.BR user_attr ,
is listed in
.BR privileges (5)
as
.BR PRIV_FILE_CHOWN .
.sp
.LP
Privileges are specified through the Solaris Management Console
(\fBsmc\fR(1M)), the recommended method, or, on the command line, for users,
through\fBusermod\fR(1M). See \fBusermod\fR(1M) for examples of commands
that modify privileges and their subsequent effect on
.BR user_attr .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Assigning a Profile to Root
.sp
.LP
The following example entry assigns to root the
.B All
profile, which
allows root to use all commands in the system, and also assigns two
authorizations:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
root::::auths=solaris.*,solaris.grant;profiles=All;type=normal
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B solaris.*
wildcard authorization shown above gives root all the
\fBsolaris\fR authorizations; and the \fBsolaris.grant\fR authorization
gives root the right to grant to others any
.B solaris
authorizations
that root has. The combination of authorizations enables root to grant to
others all the
.B solaris
authorizations. See
.BR auth_attr (4)
for more
about authorizations.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/user_attr
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Described here.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailibilitySUNWcsr
_
Interface StabilitySee below
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command-line syntax is Committed. The output is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR auths (1),
\fBpfcsh\fR(1),
.BR pfksh (1),
\fBpfsh\fR(1),
.BR ppriv (1),
\fBprofiles\fR(1),
.BR roles (1),
.BR roleadd (1M),
.BR rolemod (1M),
.BR useradd (1M),
.BR usermod (1M),
\fBgetdefaultproj\fR(3PROJECT), \fBgetuserattr\fR(3SECDB),
.BR auth_attr (4),
.BR exec_attr (4),
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
.BR passwd (4),
\fBpolicy.conf\fR(4),
.BR prof_attr (4),
.BR project (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR privileges (5)
.sp
.LP
See the
.BR dtstyle (1X),
.BR label_encodings (4),
and
.BR labels (5)
man pages in the \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Reference Manual\fR.
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Security Services
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When deciding which authorization source to use, if you are not using LDAP,
keep in mind that
.B NIS+
provides stronger authentication than
.BR NIS .
.sp
.LP
The root user is usually defined in local databases for a number of
reasons, including the fact that root needs to be able to log in and do
system maintenance in single-user mode, before the network name service
databases are available. For this reason, an entry should exist for root in
the local
.B user_attr
file, and the precedence shown in the example
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) file entry under EXAMPLES is highly recommended.
.sp
.LP
Because the list of legal keys is likely to expand, any code that parses
this database must be written to ignore unknown key-value pairs without
error. When any new keywords are created, the names should be prefixed with
a unique string, such as the company's stock symbol, to avoid potential
naming conflicts.
.sp
.LP
In the
.B attr
field, escape the following symbols with a backslash
(\fB\e\fR) if you use them in any value: colon
.RB ( : ),
semicolon
(\fB;\fR), carriage return (\fB\en\fR), equals
.RB ( = ),
or backslash
(\fB\e\fR).
