'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH vfstab 4 "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
vfstab \- table of file system defaults
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The file
.B /etc/vfstab
describes defaults for each file system. The
information is stored in a table with the following column headings:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
device       device       mount      FS      fsck    mount      mount
to mount     to fsck      point      type    pass    at boot    options
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields in the table are space-separated and show the resource name
(\fIdevice to mount\fR), the raw device to \fBfsck\fR (\fIdevice to
fsck\fR), the default mount directory
.RI ( "mount point" ),
the name of the
file system type
.RI ( "FS type" ),
the number used by
.B fsck
to decide
whether to check the file system automatically (\fIfsck pass\fR), whether
the file system should be mounted automatically by
.B mountall
(\fImount
at boot\fR), and the file system mount options
.RI ( "mount options" ).
(See
respective mount file system man page below in
.B "SEE ALSO"
for \fImount
options\fR.) A '-' is used to indicate no entry in a field. This may be used
when a field does not apply to the resource being mounted.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetvfsent\fR(3C) family of routines is used to read and write to
.BR /etc/vfstab .
.sp
.LP
.B /etc/vfstab
can be used to specify swap areas. An entry so specified,
(which can be a file or a device), will automatically be added as a swap
area by the
.B /sbin/swapadd
script when the system boots. To specify a
swap area, the
.I device-to-mount
field contains the name of the swap
file or device, the \fIFS-type\fR is "swap", \fImount-at-boot\fR is "no" and
all other fields have no entry.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following are
.B vfstab
entries for various file system types
supported in the Solaris operating environment.
.LP
.B Example 1
NFS and UFS Mounts
.sp
.LP
The following entry invokes NFS to automatically mount the directory
.B /usr/local
of the server
.B example1
on the client's
.B /usr/local
directory with read-only permission:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example1:/usr/local - /usr/local nfs - yes ro
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example assumes a small departmental mail setup, in which
clients mount
.B /var/mail
from a server
.BR mailsvr .
The following
entry would be listed in each client's
.BR vfstab :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
mailsvr:/var/mail - /var/mail nfs - yes intr,bg
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following is an example for a UFS file system in which logging is
enabled:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/dsk/c2t10d0s0 /dev/rdsk/c2t10d0s0 /export/local ufs 3 yes logging
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See \fBmount_nfs\fR(1M) for a description of NFS mount options and
.BR mount_ufs (1M)
for a description of UFS options.

.LP
.B Example 2 pcfs
Mounts
.sp
.LP
The following example mounts a
.B pcfs
file system on a fixed hard disk
on an x86 machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/dsk/c1t2d0p0:c - /win98 pcfs - yes -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The example below mounts a Jaz drive on a SPARC machine. Normally, the
volume management software handles mounting of removable media, obviating a
.B vfstab
entry. Specifying a device that supports removable media in
.B vfstab
with set the mount-at-boot field to
.B no
(as shown below)
disables the  automatic handling of that device. Such an entry presumes you
are not running volume management software.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/dsk/c1t2d0s2:c - /jaz pcfs - no -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For removable media on a SPARC machine, the convention for the slice
portion of the disk identifier is to specify
.BR s2 ,
which stands for the
entire medium.

.sp
.LP
For
.B pcfs
file systems on x86 machines, note that the disk identifier
uses a
.B p
(\fBp0\fR) and a logical drive (\fBc\fR, in the \fB/win98\fR
example above) for a \fBpcfs\fR logical drive. See \fBmount_pcfs\fR(1M) for
syntax for \fBpcfs\fR logical drives and for \fBpcfs\fR-specific mount
options.

.LP
.B Example 3
CacheFS Mount
.sp
.LP
Below is an example for a CacheFS file system. Because of the length of
this entry and the fact that
.B vfstab
entries cannot be continued to a
second line, the
.B vfstab
fields are presented here in a vertical
format. In re-creating such an entry in your own
.BR vfstab ,
you would
enter values as you would for any
.B vfstab
entry, on a single line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
device to mount:  svr1:/export/abc
device to fsck:  /usr/abc
mount point:  /opt/cache
FS type:  cachefs
fsck pass:  7
mount at boot:  yes
mount options:
local-access,bg,nosuid,demandconst,backfstype=nfs,cachedir=/opt/cache
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See \fBmount_cachefs\fR(1M) for CacheFS-specific mount options.

.LP
.B Example 4
Loopback File System Mount
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of mounting a loopback (\fBlofs\fR) file
system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/export/test - /opt/test lofs - yes -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See \fBlofs\fR(7FS) for an overview of the loopback file system.

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fsck (1M),
.BR mount (1M),
.BR mount_cachefs (1M),
.BR mount_hsfs (1M),
.BR mount_nfs (1M),
.BR mount_tmpfs (1M),
.BR mount_ufs (1M),
.BR swap (1M),
.BR getvfsent (3C)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Basic Administration
