'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pool_component_to_elem 3POOL "23 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_component_to_elem, pool_to_elem, pool_conf_to_elem,
pool_resource_to_elem \- resource pool element-related functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBpool_elem_t *\fBpool_component_to_elem\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fIcomponent\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_elem_t *\fBpool_conf_to_elem\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_elem_t *\fBpool_resource_to_elem\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR
      \fBpool_resource_t *\fIresource\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_elem_t *\fBpool_to_elem\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBpool_t *\fIpool\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A pool element, as represented by a
.BR pool_elem_t ,
is a common
abstraction for any
.B libpool
entity that contains properties. All such
types can be converted to the opaque
.B pool_elem_t
type using the
appropriate conversion functions prototyped above. The \fIconf\fR argument
for each function refers to the target configuration to which the operation
applies.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return a \fBpool_elem_t\fR
.RI "corresponding to the argument passed in. Otherwise they return" " NULL"
and \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL) returns the pool-specific error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpool (3LIB),
.BR pool_error (3POOL),
.BR attributes (5)
