'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pool_error 3POOL "23 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_error, pool_strerror \- error interface to resource pools library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpool_error\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst char *\fBpool_strerror\fR(\fBint\fR \fIperr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_error()
function returns the error value of the last failure
recorded by the invocation of one of the functions of the resource pool
configuration library,
.BR libpool .
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_strerror()
function returns a descriptive null-terminated
string for each of the valid pool error codes.
.sp
.LP
The following error codes can be returned by
.BR pool_error() :
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_error()
function returns the current pool error value for
the calling thread from among the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_ACCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation could not be performed because the configuration was not
opened with the correct opening permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A bad parameter was supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BAD_PROP_TYPE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An incorrect property type was submitted or encountered during the pool
operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_DATASTORE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An error occurred within permanent storage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_INVALID_CONF
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The pool configuration presented for the operation is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_INVALID_SEARCH
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
A query whose outcome set was empty was attempted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_NOTSUP
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An unsupported operation was attempted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_PUTPROP
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An attempt to write a read-only property was made.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_OK
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The previous pool operation succeeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
An underlying system call or library function failed;
.BR errno (3C)
is
preserved where possible.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_strerror()
function returns a pointer to the string
corresponding to the requested error value. If the error value has no
corresponding string, \(mi1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_strerror()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ESRCH
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The specified error value is not defined by the pools error facility.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR errno (3C),
.BR libpool (3LIB),
pool_error(3POOL),
.BR attributes (5)
