'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pool_get_property 3POOL "23 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_get_property, pool_put_property, pool_rm_property,
pool_walk_properties \- resource pool element property manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBpool_value_class_t\fR \fBpool_get_property\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR,
     \fBconst pool_elem_t *\fIelem\fR, \fBconst char *\fIname\fR,
     \fBpool_value_t *\fIproperty\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_put_property\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBpool_elem_t *\fIelem\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIname\fR, \fBconst pool_value_t *\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_rm_property\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBpool_elem_t *\fIelem\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_walk_properties\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBpool_elem_t *\fIelem\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR, \fBint (*\fIcallback\fR)(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR, \fBpool_elem_t *\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR, \fBpool_value_t *\fR, \fBvoid *\fR));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The various pool types are converted to the common pool element type
(\fBpool_elem_t\fR) before property manipulation. A \fBpool_value_t\fR is an
opaque type that contains a property value of one of the following types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POC_UINT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
unsigned 64-bit integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POC_INT
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
signed 64-bit integer
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POC_DOUBLE
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
signed double-precision floating point value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POC_BOOL
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
boolean value: 0 is false, non-zero is true
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POC_STRING
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
null-terminated string of characters
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.I conf
argument for each function refers to the target
configuration to which the operation applies.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_get_property()
function attempts to retrieve the value of
the named property from the element. If the property is not found or an
error occurs, the value
.B POC_INVAL
is returned to indicate error.
Otherwise the type of the value retrieved is returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_put_property()
function attempts to set the named property
on the element to the specified value.  Attempting to set a property that
does not currently exist on the element will cause the property with the
given name and value to be created on the element and will not cause an
error. An attempt to overwrite an existing property with a new property of a
different type is an error.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_rm_property()
function attempts to remove the named property
from the element.  If the property does not exist or is not removable, -1 is
returned and \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL) reporst an error of
.BR POE_PUTPROP .
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_walk_properties()
function invokes
.I callback
on all
properties defined for the given element. The
.I callback
is called with
the element itself, the name of the property, the value of the property, and
the caller-provided opaque argument.
.sp
.LP
A number of special properties are reserved for internal use and cannot be
set or removed. Attempting to do so will fail. These properties are
documented on the
.BR libpool "(3LIB) manual page."
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B pool_get_property()
returns the type of
the property. Otherwise it returns
.B POC_INVAL
and
.BR pool_error()
returns the pool-specific error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.BR pool_put_property() ,
.BR pool_rm_property() ,
and
.B pool_walk_properties()
return 0.
Otherwise they return \(mi1 and \fBpool_error()\fR returns the pool-specific
error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_get_property()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID ,
the supplied
.I conf
does not contain the supplied
.IR elem ,
or the property is
restricted and cannot be accessed by the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more
details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_put_property()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID ,
the supplied
.I conf
does not contain the supplied
.IR elem ,
the property name is
not in the correct format, or the property already exists and the supplied
type does not match the existing type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more
details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_PUTPROP
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The property name is reserved by
.B libpool
and not available for use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_INVALID_CONF
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The configuration is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_rm_property()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID ,
the supplied
.I conf
does not contain the supplied elem, or the property is reserved
by libpool and cannot be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more
details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_PUTPROP
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The property name is reserved by
.B libpool
and not available for use.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_walk_properties()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more
details.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpool (3LIB),
.BR pool_error (3POOL),
.BR attributes (5)
