'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pool_walk_components 3POOL "18 Jul 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_walk_components, pool_walk_pools, pool_walk_resources \- walk objects
within resource pool configurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpool_walk_components\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_resource_t *\fIresource\fR, \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR,
     \fBint (*\fIcallback\fR)(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR, \fBpool_resource_t *\fR, \fBvoid *\fR));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_walk_pools\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR,
     \fBint (*\fIcallback\fR)(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR, \fBpool_component_t *\fR, \fBvoid *\fR));
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_walk_resources\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR, \fBpool_t *\fIpool\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fIarg\fR, \fBint (*\fIcallback\fR)(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fR, \fBvoid *\fR));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The walker functions provided with
.BR libpool "(3LIB) visit each associated"
entity of the given type, and call the caller-provided \fIcallback\fR
function with a user-provided additional opaque argument. There is no implied
order of visiting nodes in the walk.  If the
.I callback
function returns
a non-zero value at any of the nodes, the walk is terminated, and an error
value of -1 returned. The
.I conf
argument for each function refers to the
target configuration to which the operation applies.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_walk_components()
function invokes
.I callback
on all
components contained in the resource.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_walk_pools()
function invokes
.I callback
on all pools
defined in the configuration.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_walk_resources()
function invokes
.I callback
function on
all resources associated with
.IR pool .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of the walk, these functions return 0. Otherwise
-1 is returned and \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL) returns the pool-specific error
value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_INVALID_CONF
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The configuration is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more details.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpool (3LIB),
.BR pool_error (3POOL),
.BR attributes (5)
