'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH pool_component_info 3POOL "23 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_component_info, pool_get_owning_resource \- resource pool component
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBconst char *\fBpool_component_info\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fIcomponent\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_resource_t *\fBpool_get_owning_resource\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fIcomponent\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Certain resources, such as processor sets, are composed of resource
components. Informational and ownership attributes of resource components
are made available with the
.B pool_component_info()
and
.B pool_get_owning_resource()
functions. The
.I conf
argument for each
function refers to the target configuration to which the operation
applies.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_component_info()
function returns a string describing
.IR component .
The string is allocated with
.BR malloc "(3C). The caller"
is reponsible for freeing the returned string. The
.I flags
argument is
ignored.
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_get_owning_resource()
function returns the resource
currently containing
.IR component .
Every component is contained by a
resource.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B pool_component_info()
returns a string.
Otherwise it returns
.I NULL
and
.BR pool_error "(3POOL) returns the"
pool-specific error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B pool_get_owning_resource()
returns the
owning resource. Otherwise it returns
.I NULL
and
.BR pool_error()
returns the pool-specific error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_component_info()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.B POF_VALID
or the
.I flags
paramter is neither 0 or 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_INVALID_CONF
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The configuration is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_SYSTEM
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more
details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B pool_get_owning_resource()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B POE_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The supplied configuration's status is not
.BR POF_VALID .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libpool (3LIB),
.BR pool_error (3POOL),
.BR attributes (5)
