'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH ps_pglobal_lookup 3PROC "16 Jan 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Process Control Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ps_pglobal_lookup, ps_pglobal_sym \- look up a symbol in the symbol table
of the load object in the target process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <proc_service.h>

\fBps_err_e\fR \fBps_pglobal_lookup\fR(\fBstruct ps_prochandle *\fIph\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIobject_name\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsym_name\fR,
     \fBpsaddr_t *\fIsym_addr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBps_err_e\fR \fBps_pglobal_sym\fR(\fBstruct ps_prochandle *\fIph\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIobject_name\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsym_name\fR,
     \fBps_sym_t *\fIsym\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B ps_pglobal_lookup()
looks up the symbol
.I sym_name
in the symbol
table of the load object
.I object_name
in the target process identified
by
.IR ph .
It returns the symbol's value as an address in the target
process in \fB*\fIsym_addr.\fR
.sp
.LP
.B ps_pglobal_sym()
looks up the symbol
.I sym_name
in the symbol
table of the load object
.I object_name
in the target process identified
by \fIph\fR. It returns the symbol table entry in \fB*\fIsym.\fR The
value in the symbol table entry is the symbol's value as an address in the
target process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PS_OK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The call completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PS_NOSYM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The specified symbol was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B PS_ERR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The function did not return successfully.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kill (2),
.BR libc_db (3LIB),
.BR proc_service (3PROC),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR threads (5)
