'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nice 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nice \- change priority of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include<unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnice\fR(\fIincr\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIincr\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The scheduling priority of the process is augmented by
.IR incr .
Positive
priorities get less service than normal. Priority 10 is recommended to users
who wish to execute long-running programs without undue impact on system
performance.
.sp
.LP
Negative increments are illegal, except when specified by the privileged
user. The priority is limited to the range \(mi20 (most urgent) to 20
(least). Requests for values above or below these limits result in the
scheduling priority being set to the corresponding limit.
.sp
.LP
The priority of a process is passed to a child process by
.BR fork (2).
For
a privileged process to return to normal priority from an unknown state,
.B nice()
should be called successively with arguments \(mi40 (goes to
priority \(mi20 because of truncation), 20 (to get to 0), then 0 (to maintain
compatibility with previous versions of this call).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B nice()
returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, a value
of \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The priority is not changed if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EPERM
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The value of
.I incr
specified was negative, and the effective user
.B ID
is not the privileged user.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nice (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR fork (2),
.BR priocntl (2),
.BR getpriority (3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written on
BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries or
in multi-threaded applications is unsupported.
