'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH psignal 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
psignal, sys_siglist \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.

\fBvoid\fR \fBpsignal\fR(\fIsig\fR, \fIs\fR)
\fBunsigned\fR \fIsig\fR;
\fBchar *\fIs\fR;
\fBchar *\fIsys_siglist\fR[];
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B psignal()
produces a short message on the standard error file
describing the indicated signal. First the argument string
.I s
is
printed, then a colon, then the name of the signal and a
.B NEWLINE.
Most
usefully, the argument string is the name of the program which incurred the
signal. The signal number should be from among those found in
.BR <signal.h> .
.sp
.LP
To simplify variant formatting of signal names, the vector of message
strings
.B sys_siglist
is provided; the signal number can be used as an
index in this table to get the signal name without the newline. The define
.B NSIG
defined in
.B <signal.h>
is the number of messages provided
for in the table; it should be checked because new signals may be added to
the system before they are added to the table.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR perror (3C),
.BR signal (3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
