'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH readdir 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
readdir \- read a directory entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/dir.h>

\fBstruct direct *\fBreaddir\fR(\fIdirp\fR)
\fBDIR *\fIdirp\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function returns a pointer to a structure representing
the directory entry at the current position in the directory stream to which
.I dirp
refers, and positions the directory stream at the next entry,
except on read-only file systems. It returns a
.I NULL
pointer upon
reaching the end of the directory stream, or upon detecting an invalid
location in the directory.  The
.B readdir()
function shall not return
directory entries containing empty names.  It is unspecified whether entries
are returned  for dot \fB(\fR.\fB)\fR or dot-dot \fB(\fR.\|.\fB)\fR. The
pointer returned by
.B readdir()
points to data that may be overwritten
by another call to
.B readdir()
on the same directory stream. This data
shall not be  overwritten by another call to
.B readdir()
on a different
directory stream. The
.B readdir()
function may buffer several directory
entries per actual read operation. The
.B readdir()
function marks for
update the
.I st_atime
field of the directory each time the directory is
actually read.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function returns
.I NULL
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function will fail if one or more of the following are
true:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Mandatory file/record locking was set,
.B O_NDELAY
or
.BR O_NONBLOCK
was set, and there was a blocking record lock.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Total amount of system memory available when reading using raw I/O is
temporarily insufficient.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
No data is waiting to be read on a file associated with a tty device and
.B O_NONBLOCK
was set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EAGAIN
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
No message is waiting to be read on a stream and
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
was set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The file descriptor determined by the
.B DIR
stream is no longer valid.
This results if the
.B DIR
stream has been closed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EBADMSG
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Message waiting to be read on a stream is not a data message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EDEADLK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B read()
was going to go to sleep and cause a deadlock to occur.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.I buf
points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A signal was caught during the
.B read()
or
.B readv()
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Attempted to read from a stream linked to a multiplexor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EIO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is in a background
process group and is attempting to read from its controlling terminal, and
either the process is ignoring or blocking the
.B SIGTTIN
signal or the
process group of the process is orphaned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The current file pointer for the directory is not located at a valid
entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLCK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The system record lock table was full, so the
.B read()
or
.BR readv()
could not go to sleep until the blocking record lock was removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOLINK
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.I fildes
is on a remote machine and the link to that machine is no
longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENXIO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The device associated with
.I fildes
is a block special or character
special file and the value of the file pointer is out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EOVERFLOW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The value of the
.B direct
structure member
.B d_ino
cannot be
represented in an
.BR ino_t .
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B readdir()
function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See
.BR lf64 (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR getdents (2),
.BR readdir (3C),
.BR scandir (3UCB),
.BR lf64 (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on
.B BSD
platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system
libraries or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
