'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH setjmp 3UCB "7 Apr 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
setjmp, longjmp, _setjmp, _longjmp \- non-local goto
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <setjmp.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetjmp\fR(\fIenv\fR)
\fBjmp_buf\fR \fIenv\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlongjmp\fR(\fIenv\fR, \fIval\fR)
\fBjmp_buf\fR \fIenv\fR;
\fBint\fR \fIval\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_setjmp\fR(\fIenv\fR)
\fBjmp_buf\fR \fIenv\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fB_longjmp\fR(\fIenv\fR, \fIval\fR)
\fBjmp_buf\fR \fIenv\fR;
\fBint\fR \fIval\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B setjmp()
and
.B longjmp()
functions are useful for dealing
with errors and interrupts encountered in a low-level subroutine of a
program.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setjmp()
function saves its stack environment in
.I env
for
later use by
.BR longjmp() .
A normal call to
.B setjmp()
returns zero.
.B setjmp()
also saves the register environment.  If a \fBlongjmp()\fR
call will be made, the routine which called
.B setjmp()
should not return
until after the
.B longjmp()
has returned control (see below).
.sp
.LP
The
.B longjmp()
function restores the environment saved by the last
call of
.BR setjmp() ,
and then returns in such a way that execution
continues as if the call of
.B setjmp()
had just returned the value
.I val
to the function that invoked
.BR setjmp() ;
however, if \fIval\fR
were zero, execution would continue as if the call of
.B setjmp()
had
returned one.  This ensures that a ``return'' from
.B setjmp()
caused by
a call to
.B longjmp()
can be distinguished from a regular return from
.BR setjmp() .
The calling function must not itself have returned in the
interim, otherwise
.B longjmp()
will be returning control to a possibly
nonexistent environment. All memory-bound data have values as of the time
.B longjmp()
was called.  The
.B CPU
and floating-point data registers
are restored to the values they had at the time that
.B setjmp()
was
called. But, because the
.B register
storage class is only a hint to the
C compiler, variables declared as
.B register
variables may not
necessarily be assigned to machine registers, so their values are
unpredictable after a
.BR longjmp() .
This is especially a problem for
programmers trying to write machine-independent C routines.
.sp
.LP
The
.B setjmp()
and
.B longjmp()
functions save and restore the
signal mask while
.B _setjmp()
and
.B _longjmp()
manipulate only the C
stack and registers.
.sp
.LP
None of these functions save or restore any floating-point status or
control registers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of
.B setjmp()
and
.BR longjmp() .
.sp
.LP
The following example uses both
.B setjmp()
and
.B longjmp()
to
return the flow of control to the appropriate instruction block:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <setjmp.h>
#include <signal.h>
#include <unistd.h>
jmp_buf env; static void signal_handler();
main(\|)  {
        int returned_from_longjump, processing = 1;
        unsigned int time_interval = 4;
        if ((returned_from_longjump = setjmp(env)) != 0)
            switch (returned_from_longjump)     {
              case SIGINT:
                printf("longjumped from interrupt %d\en",SIGINT);
                break;
              case SIGALRM:
                printf("longjumped from alarm %d\en",SIGALRM);
                break;
            }
        (void) signal(SIGINT, signal_handler);
        (void) signal(SIGALRM, signal_handler);
        alarm(time_interval);
        while (processing)        {
          printf(" waiting for you to INTERRUPT (cntrl-C) .\|.\|.\en");
          sleep(1);
        }  /* end while forever loop */
}

static void signal_handler(sig)
int sig; {
        switch (sig)     {
          case SIGINT:         .\|.\|.   /* process for interrupt */
                               longjmp(env,sig);
                                     /* break never reached */
          case SIGALRM:        .\|.\|.   /* process for alarm */
                               longjmp(env,sig);
                                     /* break never reached */
          default:             exit(sig);
        }
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
When this example is compiled and executed, and the user sends an interrupt
signal, the output will be:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
longjumped from interrupt
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Additionally, every 4 seconds the alarm will expire, signalling this
process, and the output will be:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
longjumped from alarm
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigvec (3UCB),
.BR setjmp (3C),
.BR signal (3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The
.B setjmp()
function does not save the current notion of whether the
process is executing on the signal stack.  The result is that a
.B longjmp()
to some place on the signal stack leaves the signal stack
state incorrect.
.sp
.LP
On some systems
.B setjmp()
also saves the register environment.
Therefore, all data that are bound to registers are restored to the values
they had at the time that
.B setjmp()
was called. All memory-bound data
have values as of the time
.B longjmp()
was called.  However, because the
.B register
storage class is only a hint to the C compiler, variables
declared as
.B register
variables may not necessarily be assigned to
machine registers, so their values are unpredictable after a
.BR longjmp() .
When using compiler options that specify automatic register
allocation, the compiler will not attempt to assign variables to registers
in routines that call
.BR setjmp() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B longjmp()
function never causes
.B setjmp()
to return 0, so
programmers should not depend on
.B longjmp()
being able to cause
.B setjmp()
to return 0.
