'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH sigblock 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sigblock, sigmask, sigpause, sigsetmask \- block signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsigblock\fR(\fImask\fR)
\fBint\fR \fImask\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsigmask\fR(\fIsignum\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIsignum\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsigpause\fR(\fImask\fR)
\fBint\fR \fImask\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsigsetmask\fR(\fImask\fR)
\fBint\fR \fImask\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sigblock()
adds the signals specified in
.I mask
to the set of
signals currently being blocked from delivery.  Signals are blocked if the
appropriate bit in
.I mask
is a 1; the macro
.B sigmask
is provided to
construct the mask for a given
.IR signum .
.B sigblock()
returns the
previous mask. The previous mask may be restored using
.BR sigsetmask() .
.sp
.LP
.B sigpause()
assigns
.I mask
to the set of masked signals and then
waits for a signal to arrive; on return the set of masked signals is
restored.
.I mask
is usually 0 to indicate that no signals are now to be
blocked.
.B sigpause()
always terminates by being interrupted, returning
\(mi1 and setting \fBerrno\fR to \fBEINTR.\fR
.sp
.LP
.B sigsetmask()
sets the current signal mask (those signals that are
blocked from delivery).  Signals are blocked if the corresponding bit in
.I mask
is a 1; the macro
.B sigmask
is provided to construct the mask
for a given
.IR signum .
.sp
.LP
In normal usage, a signal is blocked using
.BR sigblock() .
To begin a
critical section, variables modified on the occurrence of the signal are
examined to determine that there is no work to be done, and the process
pauses awaiting work by using
.B sigpause()
with the mask returned by
.BR sigblock() .
.sp
.LP
It is not possible to block
.BR SIGKILL ,
.BR SIGSTOP ,
or
.BR SIGCONT ,
this restriction is silently imposed by the system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sigblock()
and
.B sigsetmask()
return the previous set of masked
signals.
.B sigpause()
returns \(mi1 and sets
.B errno
to
.BR EINTR .
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (3UCB),
.BR sigvec (3UCB)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
