'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH sigstack 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sigstack \- set and/or get signal stack context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsigstack\fR(\fInss\fR, \fIoss\fR)
\fBstruct sigstack *\fInss\fR, \fB*\fIoss\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sigstack()
function allows users to define an alternate stack,
called the "signal stack", on which signals are to be processed.  When a
signal's action indicates its handler should execute on the signal stack
(specified with a \fBsigvec\fR(3UCB) call), the system checks to see if the
process is currently executing on that stack.  If the process is not
currently executing on the signal stack, the system arranges a switch to the
signal stack for the duration of the signal handler's execution.
.sp
.LP
A signal stack is specified by a
.B sigstack()
structure, which includes
the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char  *ss_sp;        /* signal stack pointer */
int   ss_onstack;    /* current status */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B ss_sp
member is the initial value to be assigned to the stack
pointer when the system switches the process to the signal stack. Note that,
on machines where the stack grows downwards in memory, this is
.I not
the
address of the beginning of the signal stack area.  The \fBss_onstack\fR
member is zero or non-zero depending on whether the process is currently
executing on the signal stack or not.
.sp
.LP
If
.I nss
is not a null pointer,
.B sigstack()
sets the signal stack
state to the value in the
.B sigstack()
structure pointed to by
.IR nss .
If
.I nss
is a
.B null
pointer, the signal stack state will
be unchanged.  If
.I oss
is not a
.B null
pointer, the current signal
stack state is stored in the
.B sigstack()
structure pointed to by
.IR oss .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise,
.B \(mi1
is
returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B sigstack()
function will fail and the signal stack context will
remain unchanged if one of the following occurs.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Either
.I nss
or
.I oss
points to memory that is not a valid part of
the process address space.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sigaltstack (2),
.BR sigvec (3UCB),
.BR signal (3C)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Signal stacks are not "grown" automatically, as is done for the normal
stack. If the stack overflows unpredictable results may occur.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-threaded applications is unsupported.
