'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH sigvec 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sigvec \- software signal facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|.
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsigvec\fR(\fIsig\fR, \fInvec\fR, \fIovec\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR;
\fBstruct sigvec *\fInvec\fR, \fB*\fIovec\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The system defines a set of signals that may be delivered to a process.
Signal delivery resembles the occurrence of a hardware interrupt: the signal
is blocked from further occurrence, the current process context is saved,
and a new one is built.  A process may specify a
.I handler
to which a
signal is delivered, or specify that a signal is to be
.I blocked
or
.IR ignored .
A process may also specify that a default action is to be
taken by the system when a signal occurs. Normally, signal handlers execute
on the current stack of the process.  This may be changed, on a per-handler
basis, so that signals are taken on a special
.IR "signal stack" .
.sp
.LP
All signals have the same
.IR priority .
Signal routines execute with the
signal that caused their invocation to be
.IR blocked ,
but other signals
may yet occur. A global
.I "signal mask"
defines the set of signals
currently blocked from delivery to a process.  The signal mask for a process
is initialized from that of its parent (normally 0).  It may be changed with
a
.B sigblock()
or
.B sigsetmask()
call, or when a signal is delivered
to the process.
.sp
.LP
A process may also specify a set of
.I flags
for a signal that affect
the delivery of that signal.
.sp
.LP
When a signal condition arises for a process, the signal is added to a set
of signals pending for the process.  If the signal is not currently
.I blocked
by the process then it is delivered to the process.  When a
signal is delivered, the current state of the process is saved, a new signal
mask is calculated (as described below), and the signal handler is invoked.
The call to the handler is arranged so that if the signal handling routine
returns normally the process will resume execution in the context from
before the signal's delivery.  If the process wishes to resume in a
different context, then it must arrange to restore the previous context
itself.
.sp
.LP
When a signal is delivered to a process a new signal mask is installed for
the duration of the process' signal handler (or until a
.B sigblock()
or
.B sigsetmask()
call is made).  This mask is formed by taking the current
signal mask, adding the signal to be delivered, and \fBOR\fRing in the
signal mask associated with the handler to be invoked.
.sp
.LP
The action to be taken when the signal is delivered is specified by a
.B sigvec()
structure, which includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void      (*sv_handler)(\|);        /* signal handler */
int       sv_mask;        /* signal mask to apply */
int       sv_flags;       /* see signal options */
#define   SV_ONSTACK      /* take signal on signal stack */
#define   SV_INTERRUPT    /* do not restart system on signal
                             return */
#define   SV_RESETHAND    /* reset handler to SIG_DFL when
                             signal taken*/
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the
.B SV_ONSTACK
bit is set in the flags for that signal, the system
will deliver the signal to the process on the signal stack specified with
.BR sigstack (3UCB)
rather than delivering the signal on the current
stack.
.sp
.LP
If
.I nvec
is not a
.I NULL
pointer,
.B sigvec()
assigns the
handler specified by
.BR sv_handler() ,
the mask specified by
.BR sv_mask() ,
and the flags specified by
.B sv_flags()
to the
specified signal.  If
.I nvec
is a
.I NULL
.RB pointer, " sigvec()"
does not change the handler, mask, or flags for the specified signal.
.sp
.LP
The mask specified in
.I nvec
is not allowed to block
.BR SIGKILL ,
.BR SIGSTOP ,
or
.BR SIGCONT .
The system enforces this restriction
silently.
.sp
.LP
If
.I ovec
is not a
.I NULL
pointer, the handler, mask, and flags in
effect for the signal before the call to
.B sigvec()
are returned to the
user. A call to
.B sigvec()
with
.I nvec
a
.I NULL
pointer and
.I ovec
not a
.I NULL
pointer can be used to determine the handling
information currently in effect for a signal without changing that
information.
.sp
.LP
The following is a list of all signals with names as in the include file
.BR <signal.h> :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGHUP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
hangup
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGINT
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
interrupt
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGQUIT\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
quit
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGILL\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
illegal instruction
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGTRAP\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
trace trap
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGABRT\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
abort (generated by
.BR abort (3C)
routine)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGEMT\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
emulator trap
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGFPE\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
arithmetic exception
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGKILL
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
kill (cannot be caught, blocked, or ignored)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGBUS\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
bus error
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGSEGV\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
segmentation violation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGSYS\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
bad argument to function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGPIPE
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
write on a pipe or other socket with no one to read it
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGALRM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
alarm clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGTERM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
software termination signal
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGURG\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
urgent condition present on socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGSTOP\fR**\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
stop (cannot be caught, blocked, or ignored)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGTSTP\fR**\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
stop signal generated from keyboard
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGCONT\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
continue after stop (cannot be blocked)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGCHLD\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
child status has changed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGTTIN\fR**\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
background read attempted from control terminal
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGTTOU\fR**\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
background write attempted to control terminal
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGIO\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
I/O is possible on a descriptor (see
.BR fcntl (2))
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGXCPU
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
cpu time limit exceeded (see
.BR getrlimit (2))
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGXFSZ
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
file size limit exceeded (see
.BR getrlimit (2))
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGVTALRM
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
virtual time alarm; see
.B setitimer()
on
.BR getitimer (2)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGPROF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
profiling timer alarm; see
.B setitimer()
on
.BR getitimer (2)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSIGWINCH\fR*\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
window changed (see
.BR termio (7I))
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGLOST
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
resource lost (see
.BR lockd (1M))
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGUSR1
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
user-defined signal 1
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SIGUSR2
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
user-defined signal 2
.RE

.sp
.LP
The starred signals in the list above cause a core image if not caught or
ignored.
.sp
.LP
Once a signal handler is installed, it remains installed until another
.B sigvec()
call is made, or an
.BR execve (2)
is performed, unless the
.B SV_RESETHAND
bit is set in the flags for that signal.  In that case,
the value of the handler for the caught signal will be set to
.BR SIG_DFL
before entering the signal-catching function, unless the signal is
.BR SIGILL ,
.BR SIGPWR ,
or
.BR SIGTRAP .
Also, if this bit is set, the
bit for that signal in the signal mask will not be set; unless the signal
mask associated with that signal blocks that signal, further occurrences of
that signal will not be blocked. The
.B SV_RESETHAND
flag is not
available in 4.2BSD, hence it should not be used if backward compatibility
is needed.
.sp
.LP
The default action for a signal may be reinstated by setting the signal's
handler to
.BR SIG_DFL ;
this default is termination except for signals
marked with * or **.  Signals marked with * are discarded if the action is
.BR SIG_DFL ;
signals marked with ** cause the process to stop. If the
process is terminated, a "core image" will be made in the current working
directory of the receiving process if the signal is one for which an
asterisk appears in the above list (see
.BR core (4)).
.sp
.LP
If the handler for that signal is
.BR SIG_IGN ,
the signal is subsequently
ignored, and pending instances of the signal are discarded.
.sp
.LP
If a caught signal occurs during certain functions, the call is normally
restarted. The call can be forced to terminate prematurely with an
.B EINTR
error return by setting the
.B SV_INTERRUPT
bit in the flags
for that signal. The
.B SV_INTERRUPT
flag is not available in 4.2BSD,
hence it should not be used if backward compatibility is needed. The
affected functions are
.BR read (2)
or
.BR write (2)
on a slow device
(such as a terminal or pipe or other socket, but not a file) and during a
.BR wait (3C).
.sp
.LP
After a
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR vfork (2)
the child inherits all signals, the
signal mask, the signal stack, and the restart/interrupt and
reset-signal-handler flags.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR execve (2)
call resets all caught signals to default action and
resets all signals to be caught on the user stack. Ignored signals remain
ignored; the signal mask remains the same; signals that interrupt functions
continue to do so.
.sp
.LP
The accuracy of
.I addr
is machine dependent. For example, certain
machines may supply an address that is on the same page as the address that
caused the fault. If an appropriate
.I addr
cannot be computed it will be
set to
.BR SIG_NOADDR .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
A
.B 0
value indicates that the call succeeded. A \fB\(mi1\fR return
value indicates that an error occurred and
.B errno
is set to indicate
the reason.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
.B sigvec()
will fail and no new signal handler will be installed if one
of the following occurs:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Either
.I nvec
or
.I ovec
is not a
.I NULL
pointer and points to
memory that is not a valid part of the process address space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
.I sig
is not a valid signal number or is
.B SIGKILL
or
.BR SIGSTOP .
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR exec (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR umask (2),
.BR vfork (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ptrace (3C),
.BR setjmp (3C)
.BR sigblock (3UCB),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR signal (3UCB),
.BR sigstack (3UCB),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR wait (3UCB),
.BR core (4),
.BR streamio (7I),
.BR termio (7I)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.sp
.LP
.B SIGPOLL
is a synonym for
.BR SIGIO .
A
.B SIGIO
will be issued
when a file descriptor corresponding to a
.B STREAMS
(see
.BR Intro (2))
file has a "selectable" event pending. Unless that descriptor has been put
into asynchronous mode (see
.BR fcntl (2)),
a process may specifically
request that this signal be sent using the
.BR "I_SETSIG ioctl" (2)
call (see
.BR streamio (7I)).
Otherwise, the process will never receive
.BR SIGPOLLs0 .
.sp
.LP
The handler routine can be declared:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void handler(int sig, int code, struct sigcontext *scp,
     char *addr);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Here
.I sig
is the signal number;
.I code
is a parameter of certain
signals that provides additional detail;
.I scp
is a pointer to the
.B sigcontext
structure (defined in
.BR signal.h ),
used to restore the
context from before the signal; and
.I addr
is additional address
information.
.sp
.LP
The signals
.BR SIGKILL ,
.BR SIGSTOP ,
and
.B SIGCONT
cannot be
ignored.
