'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH syscall 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
syscall \- indirect system call
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <sys/syscall.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsyscall\fR(\fInumber\fR, \fIarg\fR, \fI\&.\|.\|.\fR)
\fBint\fR \fInumber\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B syscall()
performs the function whose assembly language interface has
the specified
.IR number ,
and arguments \fIarg .\|.\|.\fR. Symbolic
constants for functions can be found in the header
.BR <sys/syscall.h> .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On error
.B syscall()
returns \(mi1 and sets the external variable
.B errno
(see
.BR Intro (2)).
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
.B <sys/syscall.h>
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR Intro (2),
.BR pipe (2)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
There is no way to use
.B syscall()
to call functions such as
.BR pipe (2)
which return values that do not fit into one hardware
register.
.sp
.LP
Since many system calls are implemented as library wrappers around traps to
the kernel, these calls may not behave as documented when called from
.BR syscall() ,
which bypasses these wrappers. For these reasons, using
.B syscall()
is not recommended.
