'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH wait 3UCB "30 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wait, wait3, wait4, waitpid, WIFSTOPPED, WIFSIGNALED, WIFEXITED \- wait for
process to terminate or stop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|.
#include <sys/wait.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwait\fR(\fIstatusp\fR)
\fBint *\fIstatusp\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBwaitpid\fR(\fIpid\fR, \fIstatusp\fR, \fIoptions\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIpid\fR;
\fBint *\fIstatusp\fR;
\fBint\fR \fIoptions\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>
#include <sys/resource.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwait3\fR(\fIstatusp\fR, \fIoptions\fR, \fIrusage\fR)
\fBint *\fIstatusp\fR;
\fBint\fR \fIoptions\fR;
\fBstruct rusage *\fIrusage\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBwait4\fR(\fIpid\fR, \fIstatusp\fR, \fIoptions\fR, \fIrusage\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIpid\fR;
\fBint *\fIstatusp\fR;
\fBint\fR \fIoptions\fR;
\fBstruct rusage *\fIrusage\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBWIFSTOPPED\fR(\fIstatus\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBWIFSIGNALED\fR(\fIstatus\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBWIFEXITED\fR(\fIstatus\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B wait()
function delays its caller until a signal is received or
one of its child processes terminates or stops due to tracing. If any child
process has died or stopped due to tracing and this has not been reported
using
.BR wait() ,
return is immediate, returning the process
.B ID
and
exit status of one of those children. If that child process has died, it is
discarded. If there are no children, return is immediate with the value
\(mi1 returned. If there are only running or stopped but reported children,
the calling process is blocked.
.sp
.LP
If
.I status
is not a
.I NULL
pointer, then on return from a
successful
.B wait()
call the status of the child process whose process
\fBID\fR is the return value of \fBwait()\fR is stored in the \fBwait()\fR
union pointed to by
.IR status .
The
.B w_status
member of that union is
an
.BR int ;
it indicates the cause of termination and other information
about the terminated process in the following manner:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the low-order 8 bits of
.B w_status
are equal to 0177, the child
process has stopped; the 8 bits higher up from the low-order 8 bits of
\fBw_status\fR contain the number of the signal that caused the process to
stop. See\fBptrace\fR(3C) and
.BR sigvec (3UCB).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the low-order 8 bits of
.B w_status
are non-zero and are not equal to
0177, the child process terminated due to a signal; the low-order 7 bits of
\fBw_status\fR contain the number of the signal that terminated the process.
In addition, if the low-order seventh bit of
.B w_status
(that is, bit
0200) is set, a ``core image'' of the process was produced; see
.BR sigvec (3UCB).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Otherwise, the child process terminated due to an
.B exit()
call; the 8
bits higher up from the low-order 8 bits of
.B w_status
contain the
low-order 8 bits of the argument that the child process passed to
.BR exit() ;
see
.BR exit (2).
.RE
.sp
.LP
\fBwaitpid()\fR behaves identically to \fBwait()\fR if   \fIpid\fR has a
value of \(mi1 and \fIoptions\fR has a value of zero. Otherwise, the
behavior of
.B waitpid()
is modified by the values of
.I pid
and
\fIoptions\fR as follows:
.sp
.LP
\fIpid\fR specifies a set of child processes for which status is requested.
\fBwaitpid()\fR only returns the status of a child process from this set.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I pid
is equal to \(mi1, status is requested for any child process.
In this respect,
.B waitpid()
is then equivalent to
.BR wait() .
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I pid
is greater than zero, it specifies the process
.B ID
of a
single child process for which status is requested.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I pid
is equal to zero, status is requested for any child process
whose process group
.B ID
is equal to that of the calling process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If
.I pid
is less than \(mi1, status is requested for any child process
whose process group
.B ID
is equal to the absolute value of
.IR pid .
.RE
.sp
.LP
\fIoptions\fR is constructed from the bitwise inclusive \fBOR\fR of zero or
more of the following flags, defined in the header
.BR <sys/wait.h> :
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WNOHANG
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
\fBwaitpid()\fR does not suspend execution of the calling process if status
is not immediately available for one of the child processes specified by
.IR pid .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B WUNTRACED
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The status of any child processes specified by
.I pid
that are stopped,
and whose status has not yet been reported since they stopped, are also
reported to the requesting process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBwait3()\fR is an alternate interface that allows both non-blocking
status collection and the collection of the status of children stopped by
any means. The
.I status
parameter is defined as above. The \fIoptions\fR
parameter is used to indicate the call should not block if there are no
processes that have status to report
.RB ( WNOHANG ),
and/or that children
of the current process that are stopped due to a
.BR SIGTTIN ,
.BR SIGTTOU ,
.BR SIGTSTP ,
or
.B SIGSTOP
signal are eligible to have
their status reported as well
.RB ( WUNTRACED ).
A terminated child is
discarded after it reports status, and a stopped process will not report its
status more than once. If
.I rusage
is not a
.I NULL
pointer, a
summary of the resources used by the terminated process and all its children
is returned. Only the user time used and the system time used are currently
available. They are returned in
.B rusage.ru_utime
and
.BR rusage.ru_stime ,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
When the
.B WNOHANG
option is specified and no processes have status to
report,
.B wait3()
returns 0. The
.B WNOHANG
and
.BR WUNTRACED
options may be combined by
.B ORing
the two values.
.sp
.LP
\fBwait4()\fR is another alternate interface.  With a \fIpid\fR argument of
0, it is equivalent to
.BR wait3() .
If
.I pid
has a nonzero value, then
\fBwait4()\fR returns status only for the indicated process \fBID,\fR but
not for any other child processes.
.sp
.LP
.BR WIFSTOPPED ,
.BR WIFSIGNALED ,
.BR WIFEXITED ,
are macros that take
an argument
.IR status ,
of type
.BR int ,
as returned by
.BR wait() ,
or
.BR wait3() ,
or
.BR wait4() .
\fBWIFSTOPPED\fR evaluates to true (1)
when the process for which the
.B wait()
call was made is stopped, or to
false (0) otherwise.
.B WIFSIGNALED
evaluates to true when the process
was terminated with a signal.
.B WIFEXITED
evaluates to true when the
process exited by using an
.BR exit (2)
call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If
.BR wait() or
.B waitpid()
returns due to a stopped or terminated
child process, the process ID of the child is returned to the calling
process. Otherwise, a value of \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and
.B errno
is
set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
If
.B wait()
or
.B waitpid()
return due to the delivery of a signal
to the calling process, a value of \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to
.B EINTR.
If
.B waitpid()
function was invoked with
\fBWNOHANG\fR set in
.IR options ,
it has at least one child process
specified by
.I pid
for which status is not available, and status is not
available for any process specified by
.IR pid ,
a value of zero is
returned. Otherwise, a value of \fB\(mi1\fR is returned, and
.B errno
is
set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
\fBwait3(\|)\fR and  \fBwait4(\|)\fR return 0 if \fBWNOHANG\fR is specified
and there are no stopped or exited children, and returns the process
\fBID\fR of the child process if it returns due to a stopped or terminated
child process. Otherwise, they returns a value of \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
\fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR wait() ,
\fBwait3()\fR and \fBwait4()\fR functions will fail and
return immediately if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECHILD
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The calling process has no existing unwaited-for child processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EFAULT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I status
or
.I rusage
arguments point to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBwaitpid()\fR may set \fBerrno\fR to:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ECHILD
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The process or process group specified by
.I pid
does not exist or is
not a child of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINTR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The function was interrupted by a signal. The value of the location pointed
to by
.I statusp
is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The value of
.I options
is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR wait() ,
.BR wait3() ,
and
.B wait4()
functions will terminate
prematurely, return \(mi1, and set
.B errno
to
.B EINTR
upon the
arrival of a signal whose
.B SV_INTERRUPT
bit in its flags field is set
(see \fBsigvec\fR(3UCB) and
.BR siginterrupt (3UCB)).
.BR signal (3UCB),
sets this bit for any signal it catches.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR exit (2),
.BR getrusage (3C),
.BR ptrace (3C),
.BR siginterrupt (3UCB),
.BR signal (3C),
.BR signal (3UCB),
.BR sigvec (3UCB),
.BR wait (3C),
.BR waitpid (3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written
on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries
or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.sp
.LP
If a parent process terminates without waiting on its children, the
initialization process (process
.B ID
= 1) inherits the children.
.sp
.LP
The
.BR wait() ,
.BR wait3() ,
and
.B wait4()
functions are
automatically restarted when a process receives a signal while awaiting
termination of a child process, unless the
.B SV_INTERRUPT
bit is set in
the flags for that signal.
.sp
.LP
Calls to
.B wait()
with an argument of
.B 0
should be cast to type
`\fBint *\fR', as in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBwait((int *)0)\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Previous SunOS releases used
.B union
\fBwait*statusp\fR and
.B "union wait"
.B status
in place of
.B "int *statusp"
and
\fBint\fR status. The union contained a member \fBw_status\fR that could be
treated in the same way as
.IR status .
.sp
.LP
Other members of the
.B wait
union could be used to extract this
information more conveniently:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the
.B w_stopval
member had the value
.BR WSTOPPED,
the child process had stopped; the value of the
.B w_stopsig
member was
the signal that stopped the process.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the
.B w_termsig
member was non-zero, the child process terminated
due to a signal; the value of the
.B w_termsig
member was the number of
the signal that terminated the process.  If the
.B w_coredump
member was
non-zero, a core dump was produced.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Otherwise, the child process terminated due to a call to
.BR exit() .
The
value of the
.B w_retcode
member was the low-order 8 bits of the argument
that the child process passed to
.BR exit() .
.RE
.sp
.LP
\fBunion wait\fR is obsolete in light of the new specifications
provided by
.I "IEEE Std 1003.1-1988"
and endorsed by
.I SVID89
and
.IR XPG3 .
SunOS Release 4.1 supports
.B unionwait
for backward
compatibility, but it will disappear in a future release.
