'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH power 9E "12 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
power \- power a device attached to the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint prefix\fBpower\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*dip\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcomponent\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). This entry point is required. If the
driver writer does not supply this entry point, the value
.B NULL
must be
used in the
.BR cb_ops "(9S) structure instead."
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dip
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I component
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Component of the driver to be managed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I level
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Desired component power level.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpower\fR(9E) function is the device-specific Power Management entry
point. This function is called when the system wants the driver to set the
power level of
.I component
to
.IR level .
.sp
.LP
The
.I level
argument is the driver-defined power level to which the
component needs to be set. Except for power level
.BR 0 ,
which is
interpreted by the framework to mean "powered off," the interpretation of
.I level
is entirely up to the driver.
.sp
.LP
The
.I component
argument is the component of the device to be
power-managed. The interpretation of
.I component
is entirely up to the
driver.
.sp
.LP
When a requested power transition would cause the device to lose state, the
driver must save the state of the device in memory. When a requested power
transition requires state to be restored, the driver must restore that
state.
.sp
.LP
If a requested power transition for one component requires another
component to change power state before it can be completed, the driver must
call
.BR pm_raise_power "(9F) to get the other component changed, and the"
.BR power (9E)
entry point must support being re-entered.
.sp
.LP
If the system requests an inappropriate power transition for the device
(for example, a request to power down a device which has just become busy),
then the power level should not be changed and power should return
.BR DDI_FAILURE .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B power()
function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Successfully set the power to the requested
.IR level .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Failed to set the power to the requested
.IR level .
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The
.B power()
function is called from user or kernel context only.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface stabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attach (9E),
.BR detach (9E),
.BR pm_busy_component (9F),
.BR pm_idle_component (9F),
.BR pm_raise_power (9F),
.BR cb_ops (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.sp
.LP
.I Using Power Management
