'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strategy 9E "6 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
strategy \- perform block I/O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/buf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint prefix\fBstrategy\fR(\fBstruct buf *\fIbp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI). This entry point is required
for block devices.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I bp
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the
.BR buf (9S)
structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strategy()
routine is called indirectly (through
.BR cb_ops (9S))
by the kernel to read and write blocks of data on the
block device.
.B strategy()
may also be called directly or indirectly to
support the raw character interface of a block device
.RB ( read (9E),
.BR write (9E)
and
.BR ioctl "(9E)). The"
.B strategy()
routine's
responsibility is to set up and initiate the transfer.
.sp
.LP
In general,
.B strategy()
should not block. It can, however, perform a
.BR kmem_cache_create (9F)
with both the
.B KM_PUSHPAGE
and
.B KM_SLEEP
flags set, which might block, without causing deadlock in low
memory situations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B strategy()
function must return
.BR 0 .
On an error condition,
it should call
.BR bioerror (9F)
to set \fBb_flags\fR to the proper error
code, and call
.BR biodone (9F).
Note that a partial transfer is not
considered to be an error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ioctl (9E),
.BR read (9E),
.BR write (9E),
.BR biodone (9F),
.BR bioerror (9F),
.BR buf (9S),
.BR cb_ops (9S),
.BR kmem_cache_create (9F)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
