'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tran_getcap 9E "30 Aug 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
tran_getcap, tran_setcap \- get/set SCSI transport capability
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint prefix\fBtran_getcap\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fIap\fR, \fBchar *\fIcap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwhom\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint prefix\fBtran_setcap\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fIap\fR, \fBchar *\fIcap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIvalue\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIwhom\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ap
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the
.BR scsi_address "(9S) structure."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cap
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the string capability identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I value
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Defines the new state of the capability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I whom
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Specifies whether all targets or only the specified target is affected.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tran_getcap()
and
.B tran_setcap()
vectors in the
.BR scsi_hba_tran (9S)
structure must be initialized during the \fBHBA
\fRdriver's \fBattach\fR(9E) to point to \fBHBA\fR entry points to be called
when a target driver calls \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F) and
\fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(9F). 
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_getcap()\fR is called to get the current value of a capability
specific to features provided by the
.B HBA
hardware or driver.  The name
of the capability
.I cap
is the
.I NULL
terminated capability
string.
.sp
.LP
If
.I whom
is non-zero, the request is for the current value of the
capability defined for the target specified by the 
.BR scsi_address (9S)
structure pointed to by
.IR ap ;
if
.I whom
is
.BR 0 ,
all targets are
affected; else, the target specified by the
.B scsi_address
structure
pointed to by
.I ap
is affected.
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_setcap()\fR is called to set the value of the capability \fIcap\fR
to the value of
.IR value .
If
.I whom
is non-zero, the capability
should be set for the target specified by the
.BR scsi_address (9S)
structure pointed to by
.IR ap ;
if
.I whom
is
.BR 0 ,
all targets are
affected; else, the target specified by the
.B scsi_address
structure
pointed to by
.I ap
is affected. It is recommended that
.B HBA
drivers
do not support setting capabilities for all targets, that is,
.I whom
is
.BR 0 .
.sp
.LP
A device may support only a subset of the defined capabilities.
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F) for the list of defined capabilities.
.sp
.LP
\fBHBA\fR drivers should use \fBscsi_hba_lookup_capstr\fR(9F) to match
\fIcap\fR against the canonical capability strings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_setcap()\fR must return  \fB1\fR if the capability was successfully
set to the new value,
.B 0
if the
.B HBA
driver does not support
changing the capability, and  \fB\(mi1\fR if the capability was not
defined.
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_getcap()\fR must return the current value of a capability or
\fB\(mi1\fR if the capability was not defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attach (9E),
.BR scsi_hba_attach (9F),
.BR scsi_hba_lookup_capstr (9F),
\fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F),
.BR scsi_address (9S),
.BR scsi_hba_tran (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
