'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tran_sync_pkt 9E "1 Nov 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
tran_sync_pkt \- SCSI HBA memory synchronization entry point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid prefix\fBtran_sync_pkt\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fIap\fR,
     \fBstruct scsi_pkt *\fIpkt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ap
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A pointer to a
.BR scsi_address "(9S) structure."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pkt
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
A pointer to a
.BR scsi_pkt "(9S) structure."
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tran_sync_pkt()
vector in the
.BR scsi_hba_tran "(9S) structure"
must be initialized during the
.B HBA
driver's
.BR attach (9E)
to point
to an
.B HBA
driver entry point to be called when a target driver calls
.BR scsi_sync_pkt (9F).
.sp
.LP
.B tran_sync_pkt()
must synchronize a
.BR HBA 's
or device's view of
the data associated with the
.IR pkt ,
typically by calling
.BR ddi_dma_sync (9F).
The operation may also involve
.BR HBA
hardware-specific details, such as flushing
.B I/O
caches, or stalling
until hardware buffers have been drained.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attach (9E),
.BR tran_init_pkt (9E),
.BR ddi_dma_sync (9F),
.BR scsi_hba_attach (9F),
.BR scsi_init_pkt (9F),
.BR scsi_sync_pkt (9F),
.BR scsi_address (9S),
.BR scsi_hba_tran (9S),
.BR scsi_pkt (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
A target driver may call
.B tran_sync_pkt()
on packets for which no
.B DMA
resources were allocated.
