'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH tran_tgt_init 9E "1 Nov 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
tran_tgt_init \- request to initialize HBA resources on behalf of a
particular target
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid prefix\fBtran_tgt_init\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fIhba_dip\fR, \fBdev_info_t *\fItgt_dip\fR,
     \fBscsi_hba_tran_t *\fIhba_tran\fR, \fBstruct scsi_device *\fIsd\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hba_dip
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B dev_info_t
structure, referring to the
.B HBA
device
instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tgt_dip
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a
.B dev_info_t
structure, referring to the target device
instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hba_tran
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a 
.BR scsi_hba_tran (9S)
structure, consisting of the
\fBHBA\fR's transport vectors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sd
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to a
.BR scsi_device "(9S) structure, describing the target."
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B tran_tgt_init()
vector in the
.BR scsi_hba_tran "(9S) structure"
may be initialized during the
.B HBA
driver's
.BR attach (9E)
to point
to an
.B HBA
driver function to be called by the system when an instance
of a target device is being created.  The
.B tran_tgt_init()
vector, if
not
.IR NULL ,is
called after the \fBdev_info\fR node structure is created
for this target device instance, but before
.BR probe (9E)
for this
instance is called. Before receiving transport requests from the target
driver instance, the
.B HBA
may perform any initialization required for
this particular target during the call of the
.BR tran_tgt_init()
vector.
.sp
.LP
Note that
.I hba_tran
will point to a cloned copy of the
.B scsi_hba_tran_t
structure allocated by the
.B HBA
driver if the
.B SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE
flag was specified in the call to
.BR scsi_hba_attach (9F).
In this case, the
.B HBA
driver may choose to
initialize the
.I tran_tgt_private
field in the structure pointed to by
.IR hba_tran ,
to point to the data specific to the particular target
device instance.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B tran_tgt_init()
must return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
the
.B HBA
driver can support the addressed target, and was able to
initialize per-target resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DDI_FAILURE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
the
.B HBA
driver cannot support the addressed target, or was unable to
initialize per-target resources. In this event, the initialization of this
instance of the target device will not be continued, the target driver's
.BR probe (9E)
will not be called, and the
.I tgt_dip
structure
destroyed.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attach (9E),
.BR probe (9E),
.BR tran_tgt_free (9E),
.BR tran_tgt_probe (9E),
.BR scsi_hba_attach_setup (9F),
.BR scsi_device (9S),
.BR scsi_hba_tran (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
