'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH write 9E "28 Mar 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
write \- write data to a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/errno.h>
#include <sys/open.h>
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint prefix\fBwrite\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fIdev\fR, \fBstruct uio *\fIuio_p\fR, \fBcred_t *\fIcred_p\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI). This entry point is optional.

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dev
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I uio_p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to the
.BR uio "(9S) structure that describes where the data is to"
be stored in user space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cred_p
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to the  user credential structure for the
.B I/O
transaction.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Used for character or raw data
.B I/O,
the driver
.B write()
routine
is called indirectly through
.BR cb_ops "(9S) by the "
.BR write (2)
system
call. The
.B write()
routine supervises the data transfer from user
space to a device described by the
.BR uio "(9S) structure."
.sp
.LP
The
.B write()
routine should check the validity of the minor number
component of
.I dev
and the user credentials pointed to by
.IR cred_p ,
if pertinent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B write()
routine should return
.B 0
for success, or the
appropriate error number.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of a
.B write()
routine using
.BR physio (9F)
to perform writes to a seekable device:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
static int
xxwrite(dev_t dev, struct uio *uiop, cred_t *credp)
{
      int	instance;
      xx_t	xx;

      instance = getminor(dev);
      xx = ddi_get_soft_state(xxstate, instance);
      if (xx == NULL)
             return (ENXIO);
      return (physio(xxstrategy, NULL, dev, B_WRITE,
             xxmin, uiop));
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR read (9E),
.BR physio (9F),
.BR cb_ops (9S),
.BR uio (9S)
.sp
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
