'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPDelAttrs 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPDelAttrs \- delete attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPDelAttrs\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcURL\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpcAttrs\fR, \fBSLPRegReport *\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPDelAttrs()
function deletes the selected attributes in the locale
of the
.BR SLPHandle .
If no error  occurs, the return value is
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, one of the
.B SLPError
codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The language specific
.B SLPHandle
to  use to delete  attributes. It cannot
be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcURL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The
.B " URL"
of the advertisement from which the attributes should be deleted.
It cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcAttrs
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A  comma-separated  list of attribute ids  for  the attributes to deregister.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A callback to report the operation's completion status. It cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvCookie
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Memory passed to the callback code from the client. It cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Deleting Attributes
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to delete the
.B location
and
.B dpi
attributes
for the
.BR "URL service:printer:lpr://serv/queve1"

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPError err;
SLPRegReport report;

err = SLPDelAttrs(hSLP, "service:printer:lpr://serv/queue1",
    "location,dpi", report, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
\fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
