'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPDereg 3SLP "16 jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPDereg \- deregister the SLP advertisement
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPDereg\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcURL\fR,
     \fBSLPRegReport\fR \fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPDereg()
function deregisters the advertisement for
.BR URL
\fIpcURL\fR in all scopes where the service is registered and in all
language locales, not just the locale of the
.BR SLPHandle .
If no error
occurs, the return value is
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, one of the \fBSLPError\fR
codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The language specific
.B SLPHandle
to use for deregistering. \fIhSLP\fR
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcURL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The \fBURL\fRto deregister. The value of
.I pcURL
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
.RI "A callback to report the operation completion  status." " callback"
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvCookie
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Memory passed to the callback code from the client.
.I pvCookie
can be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBSLPDereg()\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to deregister the advertisement for the
.BR URL
"\fBservice:ftp://csserver\fR":

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPerror err;
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPRegReport regreport;

err = SLPDereg(hSLP, "service:ftp://csserver", regreport, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
\fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E., Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.,
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" ,
The
Internet Society, June 1999.
