'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPFindScopes 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPFindScopes \- return list of configured and discovered scopes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPFindScopes\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBchar**\fR \fIppcScopes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPFindScopes()
function sets the
.I ppcScopes
parameter to  a
pointer to a comma-separated list including  all available scope names. The
list of  scopes comes from  a variety of  sources: the configuration file,
the
.B net.slp.useScopes
property and the
.BR net.slp.DAAddresses
property,
.BR DHCP ,
or  through the
.B DA
discovery process.  If
there is  any  order  to the  scopes,  preferred  scopes  are  listed before
less desirable  scopes.  There  is  always  at  least one  string in the
array, the  default  scope,
.BR DEFAULT .
.sp
.LP
If no error occurs,
.B SLPFindScopes()
returns
.BR SLP_OK ,
otherwise,
it returns the appropriate error code.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B SLPHandle
on which to search for scopes.
.I hSLP
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ppcScopes
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A  pointer to  a
.B char
pointer  into  which  the  buffer pointer is
placed upon return. The buffer is null-terminated.   The memory should be
freed by calling
.BR SLPFree() .
See
.BR SLPFree (3SLP)
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Finding Configured or Discovered Scopes
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to find configured or discovered scopes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hSLP;
char *ppcScopes;
SLPError err;

error = SLPFindScopes(hSLP, & ppcScopes);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR SLPFree (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
