'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPFindSrvs 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPFindSrvs \- return service URLs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPFindSrvs\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcServiceType\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpcScopeList\fR,\ \fBconst char *\fIpcSearchFilter\fR,
     \fBSLPSrvURLCallback *\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPFindSrvs()
function issues a request for
.B SLP
services.
The query is for services on a language-specific
.BR SLPHandle .
It returns
the results through the
.IR callback .
The parameters will determine the
results.
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs  in starting the operation, one  of  the \fBSLPError\fR
codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The language-specific
.B SLPHandle
on which to  search for services. It
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcServiceType
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The service type string for the request. The
.I pcServiceType
can be
discovered by a call to
.BR SLPSrvTypes() .
Examples of service type
strings include
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"service:printer:lpr"
.fi
.in -2

or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"service:nfs"
.fi
.in -2

.I pcServiceType
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcScopeList
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A pointer to a
.B char
containing a comma-separated  list  of scope
names. It cannot be \fINULL\fR or an empty string, \fB""\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcSearchFilter
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A query formulated of attribute pattern matching expressions in the form of
a
.B LDAPv3
search filter. See
.IR "RFC 2254" .
If this filter is empty,
\fB""\fR, all services of the requested type in the specified scopes are
returned. It cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
A callback through which the results of the operation are reported. It
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvCookie
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Memory passed to the callback code from the client. It can be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR SLPFindSrvs()
.sp
.LP
The following example finds all advertisements for printers supporting the
.B LPR
protocol with the dpi attribute 300 in the default scope:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPError err;
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPSrvURLCallback srvngst;

err = SLPFindSrvs(hSLP,
                  "service:printer:lpr",
                  "default",
                  "(dpi=300)",
                  srvngst,
                  NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Howes, T.
.IR "RFC 2254, The String Representation of LDAP Search Filters" .
The Internet Society. 1997.
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
