'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPFindAttrs 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPFindAttrs \- return service attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPFindAttrs\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcURL\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpcScopeList\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcAttrIds\fR,
     \fBSLPAttrCallback *\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPFindAttrs()
function returns service attributes matching the
attribute tags for the  indicated full or partial \fBURL\fR.If \fIpcURL\fR
is a complete
.BR URL ,
the attribute information returned is for that
particular service in the language  locale of the
.BR SLPHandle .
If
\fIpcURL\fR is a service type, then all attributes for the service type  are
returned, regardless of the language of registration. Results are returned
through the
.I callback
parameter.
.sp
.LP
The result is filtered  with an
.B SLP
attribute  request  filter
string parameter,  the  syntax  of  which  is  described  in  \fIRFC
2608\fR. If  the filter string is  the empty string,  \fB""\fR,  all
attributes are returned.
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs in starting the operation, one of the \fBSLPError\fR
codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The language-specific
.B SLPHandle
on which to  search for attributes.
It cannot  be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcURL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The full or partial
.BR URL .
See
.I "RFC 2608"
for partial
.BR URL
syntax. It cannot  be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcScopeList
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A pointer to a
.B char
containing a comma-separated  list  of scope
names. It cannot  be \fINULL\fR or an empty string, \fB""\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcAttrIds
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The filter  string indicating  which attribute  values to  return. Use
empty string \fB""\fR  to indicate all values.  Wildcards matching  all
attribute ids  having  a particular prefix or suffix are also possible. It
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A callback function through which the results of the operation are
reported. It cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvCookie
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Memory passed to the callback code from the client. It may be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Returning Service Attributes for a Specific \fBURL\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to return the attributes "\fBlocation\fR" and
"\fBdpi\fR" for the \fBURL\fR "\fBservice:printer:lpr://serv/queue1\fR"
through the callback
.BR attrReturn :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPAttrCallback attrReturn;
SLPError err;

err = SLPFindAttrs(hSLP "service:printer:lpr://serv/queue1",
     "default", "location,dpi", attrReturn, err);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Returning Service Attributes for All \fBURL\fRs of a
Specific Type
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to return the attributes "\fBlocation\fR" and
"\fBdpi\fR" for all service \fBURL\fRs having type
"\fBservice:printer:lpr\fR":

.sp
.in +2
.nf
err = SLPFindAttrs(hSLP, "service:printer:lpr",
     "default", "location, pi",
     attrReturn, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
\fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
