'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPFindSrvTypes 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPFindSrvTypes \- find service types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPFindSrvTypes\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpcNamingAuthority\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpcScopeList\fR, \fBSLPSrvTypeCallback *\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPFindSrvTypes()
function issues an
.B SLP
service type
request for service types in the scopes  indicated by the
.BR pcScopeList .
The results are returned through the
.I callback
parameter. The service
types are independent of language locale, but only for services registered
in one of the scopes and for the indicated naming authority.
.sp
.LP
If the naming authority is "\fB*\fR", then results are returned for all
naming authorities. If the naming authority is the empty string, \fB""\fR,
then the default naming authority,
.BR IANA ,
is used.
.B IANA
is not a
valid naming authority name. The
.B SLP_PARAMETER_BAD
error code will be
returned if you include it explicitly.
.sp
.LP
The service type names are returned with the naming authority included in
the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
service-type "." naming-authority
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
unless the naming authority is the default, in which case, just the service
type name is returned.
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs in starting the operation, one  of  the \fBSLPError\fR
codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hSLP
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The
.B SLPHandle
on which to  search for types. It cannot  be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcNamingAuthority
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The naming authority to search. Use "\fB*\fR"to search all naming
authorties; use the empty string \fB""\fR to search the default naming
authority. It cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcScopeList
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A pointer to a
.B char
containing a comma-separated  list  of scope
names to search for service types. It cannot be
.I NULL
or an empty
string, \fB""\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callback
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
A callback through which the results of the operation are reported. It
cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pvCookie
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Memory passed to the callback code from the client. It can be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBSLPFindSrvTypes()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example finds all service type names in the default scope and
default naming authority:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPError err;
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPSrvTypeCallback findsrvtypes;

err = SLPFindSrvTypes(hSLP, "", "default", findsrvtypes, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Howes, T.
.IR "RFC 2254, The String Representation of LDAP Search Filters" .
The Internet Society. 1997.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
