'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPGetProperty 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPGetProperty \- return SLP configuration property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBconst char*\fR \fBSLPGetProperty\fR(\fBconst char*\fR \fIpcName\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPGetProperty()
function returns the value of the corresponding
.B SLP
property name,  or
.IR NULL ,
if  none.   If  there is no
error,
.B SLPGetProperty()
returns  a  pointer to the  property value.
If the property  was not set, it returns  the empty string,  \fB""\fR.  If
an error occurs,
.B SLPGetProperty()
returns
.IR NULL .
The returned
string should not  be freed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcName
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A null-terminated  string with the property name.
.I pcName
cannot  be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR SLPGetProperty()
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to return a list of configured scopes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
const char* useScopes

useScopes = SLPGetProperty("net.slp.useScopes");
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
