'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPOpen 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPOpen \- open an SLP handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPOpen\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpcLang\fR, \fBSLPBoolean\fR \fIisAsync\fR, \fBSLPHandle *\fIphSLP\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPOpen()
function returns a
.B SLPHandle
handle in the
\fIphSLP\fR parameter  for  the  language   locale  passed   in  as the
\fIpcLang\fR parameter.  The client indicates if operations on  the handle
are to be synchronous or asynchronous  through the
.IR isAsync
parameter. The  handle encapsulates  the  language locale  for \fBSLP\fR
requests issued through  the  handle,  and  any  other  resources required
by the implementation.
.B SLP
properties  are not  encapsulated by the
handle, they  are global.  The return value  of  the  function is  an
\fBSLPError\fR code  indicating  the  status of  the operation.  Upon
failure, the
.I phSLP
parameter is
.IR NULL .
.sp
.LP
An
.B SLPHandle
can only be used for one
.B "SLP API"
operation
at a time. If the original operation was started asynchronously, any attempt
to start an additional operation on the handle while the original operation
is pending results in the return of an
.B SLP_HANDLE_IN_USE
error from
the
.B API
function.  The
.B SLPClose()
function terminates any
outstanding calls on the handle.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcLang
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pointer  to an  array of  characters containing  the  language tag set
forth in
.I "RFC 1766"
for the natural language  locale of requests issued
on the handle.  This parameter cannot be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I isAsync
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
An
.B SLPBoolean
indicating whether or not the
.B SLPHandle
should be
opened for an asynchronous operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I phSLP
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pointer to an
.B SLPHandle
in which the open
.B SLPHandle
is
returned. If an error occurs, the value upon return is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Using \fBSLPOpen()\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to open a synchronous handle for the German
("de") locale:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle HSLP; SLPError err;  err = SLPOpen("de", SLP_FALSE, &hSLP)
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Alvestrand, H.
.IR "RFC 1766, Tags for the Identification of Languages" .
Network Working Group. March 1995.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
