'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH SLPParseSrvURL 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPParseSrvURL \- parse service URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPParseSrvURL\fR(\fBconst char *\fIpcSrvURL\fR, \fBSLPSrvURL**\fR \fIppSrvURL\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B SLPParseSrvURL()
routine parses the
.B URL
passed in as the
argument into a service
.B URL
structure  and returns it  in the
.I ppSrvURL
pointer.    If a parser error occurs,   returns
.BR SLP_PARSE_ERROR .
The  structure returned  in
.I ppSrvURL
should
be freed with
.BR SLPFree() .
If  the
.B URL
has  no service part,
the
.B
s_pcSrvPart
string  is  the empty string, \fB""\fR,  that is, it
is not
.IR NULL .
If
.I pcSrvURL
is  not a  service:  URL,  then the
.B s_pcSrvType
field  in  the  returned data  structure  is the
.BR URL 's
scheme,  which might not be the same as the service type under
which the
.B URL
was  registered.  If  the transport  is
.BR IP ,
the
.B s_pcNetFamily
field is the empty string.
.sp
.LP
If no error  occurs, the return  value is the
.BR SLP_OK .
Otherwise, if
an error  occurs, one  of the
.B SLPError
codes  is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcSrvURL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A pointer to  a character buffer  containing the  null  terminated URL
string to parse.  It is destructively modified to produce the output
structure. It may not be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ppSrvURL
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
 A pointer to a  ponter for the
.B SLPSrvURL
structure  to  receive the parsed
.BR URL .
It may not be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any
.B SLP
error code. See the
ERRORS section in
.BR slp_api (3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Using
.BR SLPParseSrvURL()
.sp
.LP
The following example uses the
.B SLPParseSrvURL()
function to parse the
service URL
.BR service:printer:lpr://serv/queue1 :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPSrvURL* surl;
SLPError err;

err = SLPParseSrvURL("service:printer:lpr://serv/queue1", &surl);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SLP_CONF_FILE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWslpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR slpd (1M),
.BR slp_api (3SLP),
.BR slp.conf (4),
.BR slpd.reg (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
.I System Administration Guide: Network Services
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E.
.IR "RFC 2614, An API for Service Location" .
The
Internet Society. June 1999.
