'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_server_new 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_new \- create a new server authentication object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_new\fR(\fBconst char  *\fIservice\fR, \fBconst char  *\fIserverFQDN\fR,
     \fBconst char  *\fIuser_realm\fR, \fBconst char  *\fIiplocalport\fR,
     \fBconst char  *\fIipremoteport\fR, \fBconst sasl_callback_t *\fIcallbacks\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBsasl_conn_t **\fIpconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_server_new()
interface to create a new SASL context.
This context will be used for all SASL calls for one connection. The new
SASL context handles both authentication and integrity or encryption layers
after authentication.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I service
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The registered name of the service that uses SASL. The registered name is
usually the protocol name, for example, IMAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I serverFQDN
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The fully-qualified server domain name. If the value of
.I serverFQDN
is
.IR NULL ,
use
.BR gethostname "(3C). The"
.I serverFQDN
parameter is
useful for multi-homed servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user_realm
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The domain of the user agent. The
.I user_realm
is usually not
necessary. The default value of
.I user_realm
is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I iplocalport
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
.sp
.LP
The IP address and port of the local side of the connection. The value of
.I iplocalport
may be
.IR NULL .
If
.I iplocalport
is
.IR NULL ,
mechanisms that require IP address information are disabled. The
.I iplocalport
string must be in one of the following formats:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B a.b.c.d:port
(IPv4)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B [e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l]:port
(IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B [e:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d]:port
(IPv6)
.RE
.sp
.LP
The following older formats are also supported:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B a.b.c.d;port
(IPv4)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l;port
(IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B e:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d;port
(IPv6)
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ipremoteport
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The IP address and port of the remote side of the connection. The value of
.I ipremoteport
may be
.IR NULL .
See
.IR iplocalport .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callbacks
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Callbacks, for example: authorization, lang, and new getopt context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Usage flags. For servers, the flags
.B SASL_NEED_PROXY
and
.B SASL_SUCCESS_DATA
are available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pconn
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A pointer to the connection context allocated by the library. This
structure will be used for all future SASL calls for this connection.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_server_new()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_server_new()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or
the authentication session should be quit. See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gethostname (3C),
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
