'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_server_userdb_setpass_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_userdb_setpass_t \- user database plaintext password setting
callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_userdb_setpass_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBvoid *\fIcontext\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIuser\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpass\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIpasslen\fR, \fBstruct propctx *\fIpropctx\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_server_userdb_setpass_t()
callback function to store or
change a a plaintext password in the callback supplier's user database.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The context from the callback record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A null-terminated user name with
.B user@realm
syntax.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pass
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The password to check. This string cannot be null-terminated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I passlen
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The length of
.IR pass .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I propctx
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Auxiliary properties. The value of
.I propctx
is not stored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
See
.BR sasl_setpass (3SASL).
.B sasl_server_userdb_setpass_t()
uses
the same
.I flags
that are passed to
.BR sasl_setpass() .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_server_userdb_setpass_t()\fR
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR>
for a complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_server_userdb_setpass_t()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR sasl_setpass (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
