'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_decode64 3SASL "16 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_decode64 \- decode base64 string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/saslutil.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_decode64\fR(\fBconst char *\fIin\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIinlen\fR, \fBchar *\fIout\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIoutmax\fR,\fBunsigned *\fIoutlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_decode64()
interface to decode a base64 encoded
buffer.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I in
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Input data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I inlen
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The length of the input data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I out
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The output data. The value of
.I out
can be the same as
.IR in .
However, there must be enough space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outlen
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The length of the actual output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outmax
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The maximum size of the output buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_decode64()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_decode64()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
