'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_setpass 3SASL "15 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_setpass \- set the password for a user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_setpass\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fIuser\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpass\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIpasslen\fR, \fBconst char *\fIoldpass\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIoldpasslen\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_setpass()
interface to set passwords.
.B sasl_setpass()
uses the
.B SASL_CB_SERVER_USERDB_SETPASS
callback,
if one is supplied. Additionally, if any server mechanism plugins supply a
setpass callback, the setpass callback would be called. None of the server
mechanism plugins currently supply a setpass callback.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The SASL connection context
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The username for which the password is set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pass
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The password to set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I passlen
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The length of
.IR pass
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oldpass
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The old password, which is optional
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oldpasslen
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The length of
.IR oldpass ,
which is optional
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Refers to flags, including,
.B SASL_SET_CREATE
and
.BR SASL_SET_DISABLE .
Use these flags to create and disable accounts.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_setpass()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_setpass()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR sasl_getprop (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
