'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_seterror 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_seterror \- set the error string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBsasl_seterror\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIfmt\fR, .\|.\|.);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_seterror()
interface sets the error string that will be
returned by
.BR sasl_errdetail "(3SASL). Use"
.BR syslog (3C)
style
formatting, that is, use \fBprintf()\fR\(emstyle with
.B %m
as the most
recent
.B errno
error.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_seterror()
interface is primarily used by server callback
functions and internal plug-ins, for example, with the
.B sasl_authorize_t
callback. The
.B sasl_seterror()
interface
triggers a call to the SASL logging callback, if any, with a level of
.BR SASL_LOG_FAIL ,
unless the
.B SASL_NOLOG
flag is set.
.sp
.LP
Make the message string sensitive to the current language setting. If there
is no
.B SASL_CB_LANGUAGE
callback, message strings must be
.BR i-default .
Otherwise, UTF-8 is used. Use of
.I "RFC 2482"
for
mixed-language text is encouraged.
.sp
.LP
If the value of
.I conn
is
.IR NULL ,
the
.BR sasl_seterror()
interface fails.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The
.B sasl_conn_t
for which the call to
.BR sasl_seterror()
applies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
If set to
.BR SASL_NOLOG ,
the call to
.B sasl_seterror()
is not
logged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I fmt
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
A
.BR syslog (3C)
style format string.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_seterror()
has no return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errdetail (3SASL),
.BR syslog (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Whistler, K. and Adams, G. \fIRFC 2482, Language Tagging in Unicode Plain Text\fR. Network Working Group. January 1999.
