'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_getopt_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_getopt_t \- the SASL get option callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getopt_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fIcontext\fR, \fBconst char *\fIplugin_name\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIoption\fR, \fBconst char **\fIresult\fR, \fBunsigned *\fIlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_getopt_t()
function allows a SASL configuration to be
encapsulated in the caller's configuration system. Some implementations may
use default configuration file(s) if this function is omitted. Configuration
items are arbitrary strings and are plug-in specific.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The option context from the callback record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I plugin_name
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The name of the plug-in. If the value of
.I plugin_name
is
.IR NULL ,
the the plug-in is a general SASL option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I option
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The name of the option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I result
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The value of
.I result
is set and persists until the next call to
.B sasl_getopt_t()
in the same thread. The value of
.I result
is
unchanged if
.I option
is not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I len
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The length of
.IR result .
The value of
.I result
can be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions,
.B sasl_getopt_t()
returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_getopt_t()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
