'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_listmech 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_listmech \- retrieve a list of the supported SASL mechanisms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_listmech\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fIuser\fR, \fBconst char *\fIprefix\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIsep\fR, \fBconst char *\fIsuffix\fR, \fBconst char **\fIresult\fR,
     \fBunsigned *\fIplen\fR,\fBint *\fIpcount\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_listmech()
interface returns a string listing the SASL names
of all the mechanisms available to the specified user. This call is
typically given to the client through a capability command or initial server
response. Client applications need this list so that they know what
mechanisms the server supports.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The SASL context for this connection user restricts the mechanism list to
those mechanisms available to the user. This parameter is optional.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Restricts security mechanisms to those available to that user. The value of
.I user
may be
.IR NULL ,
and it is not used if called by the client
application.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I prefix
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Appended to the beginning of
.IR result .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sep
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Appended between mechanisms.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I suffix
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Appended to the end of
.IR result .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I result
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A null-terminated result string.
.I result
must be allocated or freed by
the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I plen
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The length of the result filled in by the library. The value of \fIplen\fR
may be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcount
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The number of mechanisms available. The value of
.I pcount
is filled in
by the library. The value of
.I pcount
may be
.IR NULL
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_listmech()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_listmech()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
