'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_verifyfile_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_verifyfile_t \- the SASL file verification callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

typedef enum {
       SASL_VRFY_PLUGIN,       /* a DLL/shared library plugin */
       SASL_VRFY_CONF,         /* a configuration file */
       SASL_VRFY_PASSWD,       /* a password storage file */
       SASL_VRFY_OTHER         /* some other file type */
} sasl_verify_tyep_t

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fIcontext\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfile\fR,
     \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_verifyfile_t()
callback function check whether a given
file can be used by the SASL library. Applications use
.B sasl_verifyfile_t()
to check the environment to ensure that plugins or
configuration files cannot be written to.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The context from the callback record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I file
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The full path of the file to verify
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The type of the file
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions,
.B sasl_verifyfile_t()
returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See
.RB < sasl.h >
for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_verifyfile_t()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
