'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_encode 3SASL "22 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_encode, sasl_encodev \- encode data for transport to an authenticated
host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_encode\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fIinput\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIinputlen\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fIoutput\fR, \fBunsigned *\fIoutputlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR  \fBsasl_encodev\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst struct iovec *\fIinvec\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fInumiov\fR, \fBconst char *\fIoutputlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_encode()
interface encodes data to be sent to a remote host
for which there has been a successful authentication session. If there is a
negotiated security, the data is signed or encrypted, and the output is sent
without modification to the remote host. If there is no security layer, the
output is identical to the input.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_encodev()
interface functions the same as the
.B sasl_encode()
interface, but operates on a
.B "struct iovec"
instead
of a character buffer.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I input
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I inputlen
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
.I input
length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I output
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The encoded data.
.I output
must be allocated or freed by the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outputlen
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The length of
.IR output .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I invec
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A pointer to set of
.B iovec
structures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I numiov
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The number of
.B iovec
structures in the
.I invec
set.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_encode()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_encode()
or \fBsasl_encodev()\fRwas successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
