'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_checkpass 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_checkpass \- check a plaintext password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_checkpass\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fIuser\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIuserlen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpass\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIpasslen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_checkpass()
interface checks a plaintext password. The
.B sasl_checkpass()
interface is used for protocols that had a login
method before SASL, for example, the
.B LOGIN
command in IMAP. The
password is checked with the
.BR pwcheck_method .
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_checkpass()
interface is a server interface. You cannot use
it to check passwords from a client.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_checkpass()
interface checks the posible repositories until
it succeeds or there are no more repositories. If
.B sasl_server_userdb_checkpass_t
is registered,
.B sasl_checkpass()
tries it first.
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B pwcheck_method
SASL option to specify which
.BR pwcheck
methods to use.
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_checkpass()
interface supports the transition of passwords
if the SASL option
.B auto_transition
is on.
.sp
.LP
If
.I user
is
.IR NULL ,
check is plaintext passwords are enabled.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The
.B sasl_conn_t
for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pass
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Plaintext password to check
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I passlen
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The length of
.IR pass
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
User to query in current
.BR user_domain
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I userlen
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The length of username.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_checkpass()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Indicates that the authentication is complete
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or
the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
