'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_authorize_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_authorize_t \- the SASL authorization callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_authorize_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fIrequested_user\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIalen\fR, \fBconst char*\fR \fIauth_identity\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIrlen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIdef_realm\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIurlen\fR, \fBstruct propctx *\fIpropctx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_authorize_t()
is a typedef function prototype that defines the
interface associated with the
.B SASL_CB_PROXY_POLICY
callback.
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_authorize_t()
interface to check whether the authorized
user
.I auth_identity
can act as the user
.IR requested_user .
For
example, the user
.B root
may want to authenticate with
.BR root 's
credentials but as the user
.BR tmartin ,
with all of
.BR tmartin 's
rights, not \fBroot\fR's. A server application should be very careful when
it determines which users may proxy as other users.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I requested_user
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The identity or username to authorize.
.I requested_user
is
null-terminated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rlen
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The length of
.IR requested_user .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I auth_identity
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The identity associated with the secret.
.I auth_identity
is
null-terminated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alen
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The length of
.IR auth_identity .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I default_realm
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The default user realm as passed to
.BR sasl_server_new (3SASL).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ulren
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
The length of the default realm
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I propctx
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Auxiliary properties
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions,
.B sasl_authorize_t()
returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_authorize_t()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR sasl_server_new (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
