'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_server_start 3SASL "1 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_start \- create a new server authentication object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_start\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char  *\fImech\fR,
     \fBconst char  *\fIclientin\fR,\ \fBunsigned *\fIclientinlen\fR,
     \fBconst char  **\fIserverout\fR, \fBunsigned *\fIserveroutlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_server_start()
interface begins the authentication with the
mechanism specified by the
.I mech
.RB parameter. " sasl_server_start()"
fails if the mechanism is not supported.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The SASL context for this connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The mechanism name that the client requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I clientin
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The initial response from the client. The value of
.I clientin
is
.I NULL
if the protocol lacks support for the client-send-first or if the
other end did not have an initial send. No initial client send is distinct
from an initial send of a null string. The protocol must account for this
difference.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I clientinlen
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the initial response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I serverout
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Created by the plugin library. The value of
.I serverout
is the initial
server response to send to the client.
.I serverout
is allocated or freed
by the library. It is the job of the client to send it over the network to
the server. Protocol specific encoding, for example
.B base64
encoding,
must be done by the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I serveroutlen
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The length of the initial server challenge.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_server_start()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL
error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Authentication completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_CONTINUE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_server_start()
was successful, and more steps are
needed in the authentication.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or
the authentication session should be quit. See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gethostname (3C),
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
