'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_errdetail 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_errdetail \- retrieve detailed information about an error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBconst char *\fR \fBsasl_errdetail\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B sasl_errdetail()
interface returns an internationalized string
that is a message that describes the error that occurred on a SASL
connection. The
.B sasl_errdetail()
interface provides a more user
friendly error message than the SASL error code returned when SASL indicates
that an error has occurred on a connection. See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The SASL connection context for which the inquiry is made.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_errdetail()
returns the string that describes the error that
occurred, or
.IR NULL ,
if there was an error retrieving it.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR sasl_seterror (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
