'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_idle 3SASL "28 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_idle \- perform precalculations during an idle period
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_idle\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_idle()
interface during an idle period to allow the SASL
library or any mechanisms to perform any necessary precalculation.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
The SASL connection context. The value of
.I conn
can be
.I NULL
in
order to complete a precalculation before the connection takes place.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_idle()
returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 1
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Indicates action was taken
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Indicates no action was taken
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
