'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_client_init 3SASL "22 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_client_init \- initialize SASL client authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_client_init\fR(\fBconst sasl_callback_t *\fIcallbacks\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_client_init()
interface to initialize SASL. The
.B sasl_client_init()
interface must be called before any calls to
.BR sasl_client_start (3SASL).
The call to
.BR sasl_client_init()
initiallizes all SASL client drivers, for example, authentication
mechanisms. SASL client drivers are usually found in the \fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR
directory.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I callbacks
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Specifies the base callbacks for all client connections.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_client_init()
returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL
error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_client_init()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_BADVERS
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
There is a mismatch in the mechanism version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_BADPARAM
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
There is an error in the configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_NOMEM
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
There is not enough memory to complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or
the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While most of
.B libsasl
is MT-Safe, no other
.B libsasl
function
should be called until this function completes.
