'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_getsecret_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_getsecret_t \- the SASL callback function for secrets (passwords)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getsecret_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBvoid *\fIcontext\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIid\fR, \fBsasl_secret_t **\fIpsecret\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_getsecret_t()
function to retrieve the secret from the
application. Allocate a
.B sasl_secret_t
to length
.BR "sizeof(sasl_secret_t)+<length of secret>" .
.B sasl_secret_t
has two
fields of
.I len
which contain the length of
.I secret
in bytes and
the data contained in
.IR secret .
The
.I secret
string does not need to
be null-terminated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The connection context
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The context from the callback structure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I id
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The callback ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I psecret
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
To cancel, set the value of
.I psecret
to
.IR NULL .
Otherwise, set the
value to the password structure. The structure must persist until the next
call to
.B sasl_getsecret_t()
in the same connection. Middleware erases
password data when it is done with it.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions,
.B sasl_getsecret_t()
returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See
.RB < sasl.h >
for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_getsecret_t()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL)
for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
