'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_client_start 3SASL "26 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_client_start \- perform a step in the authentication negotiation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_client_start\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fImechlist\fR,
     \fBsasl_interact_t **\fIprompt_need\fR, \fBconst char **\fIclientout\fR,
     \fBunsigned *\fIclientoutlen\fR, \fBconst char **\fImech\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_client_start()
interface to select a mechanism for
.RI "authentication and start the authentication session. The" " mechlist"
parameter holds the list of mechanisms that the client might like to use. The
mechanisms in the list are not necessarily supported by the client, nor are
the mechanisms necessarily valid. SASL determines which of the mechanisms to
use based upon the security preferences specified earlier. The list of
mechanisms is typically a list of mechanisms that the server supports,
acquired from a capability request.
.sp
.LP
If
.B SASL_INTERACT
is returned, the library needs some values to be
filled in before it can proceed. The
.I prompt_need
structure is filled in
with requests. The application fullfills these requests and calls
\fBsasl_client_start()\fR again with identical parameters. The
\fIprompt_need\fR parameter is the same pointer as before, but it is filled
in by the application.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I conn
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mechlist
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A list of mechanism that the server has available. Punctuation is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I prompt_need
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A list of prompts that are needed to continue, if necessary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I clientout
.ad
.br
.na
.I clientoutlen
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
\fIclientout\fR and \fIclientoutlen\fR are created. They contain the initial
client response to send to the server. It is the job of the client to send
them over the network to the server. Any protocol specific encodingthat is
necessary, for example
.B base64
encoding, must be done by the client.
.sp
If the protocol lacks client-send-first capability, then set \fIclientout\fR
to
.IR NULL .
If there is no initial client-send, then *\fIclientout\fR will
be set to
.I NULL
on return.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Contains the name of the chosen SASL mechanism, upon success.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_client_start()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL
error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_CONTINUE
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_client_start()
was successful, and more steps are
needed in the authentication.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or
the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailablitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
