'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH sasl_server_add_plugin 3SASL "1 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_add_plugin \- add a SASL server plug-in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_add_plugin\fR(\fBconst char *\fIplugname\fR,
     \fBsasl_server_plug_init_t *\fIcplugfunc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B sasl_server_add_plugin()
interface to add a server plug-in to
the current list of client plug-ins in the SASL library.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I plugname
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The name of the server plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cplugfunc
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The value of
.I cplugfunc
is filled in by the
.B sasl_server_plug_init_t
structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B sasl_server_add_plugin()
returns an integer that corresponds to a
SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_OK
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The call to
.B sasl_client_add_plugin()
was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_BADVERS
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Version mismatch with plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SASL_NOMEM
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Memory shortage failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on other SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibsasl
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sasl_errors (3SASL),
.BR attributes (5)
