'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_evd_disable 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_disable \- disable the Event Dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_disable(
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I evd_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_evd_disable()
function disables the Event Dispatcher so that
the arrival of an event does not affect the associated CNO.
.sp
.LP
If the Event Dispatcher is already disabled, this operation is no-op.
.sp
.LP
Events arriving on this EVD might cause waiters on the associated CNO to be
awakened after the return of this routine because an unblocking a CNO waiter
is already "in progress" at the time this routine is called or returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I evd_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_evd_enable (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
