'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_ep_get_status 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_get_status \- provide a quick snapshot of the Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_get_status (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE    ep_handle,
    OUT   DAT_EP_STATE     *ep_state,
    OUT   DAT_BOOLEAN      *recv_idle,
    OUT   DAT_BOOLEAN      *request_idle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_handle
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_state
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Current state of the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I recv_idle
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Status of the incoming DTOs on the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I request_idle
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Status of the outgoing DTOs and RMR Bind operations on the Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
the
.B dat_ep_get_status()
function provides the Consumer a quick
snapshot of the Endpoint. The snapshot consists of the Endpoint state and
whether there are outstanding or in-progress, incoming or outgoing DTOs.
Incoming DTOs consist of Receives. Outgoing DTOs consist of the Requests,
Send, RDMA Read, RDMA Write, and RMR Bind.
.sp
.LP
The
.I ep_state
parameter returns the value of the current state of the
Endpoint
.IR ep_handle .
State value is one of the following:
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_RESERVED ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECT_PENDING ,
or
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED .
.sp
.LP
A
.I recv_idle
value of
.B DAT_TRUE
specifies that there are no
.RB "outstanding or in-progress Receive DTOs at the Endpoint, and" " DAT_FALSE"
otherwise.
.sp
.LP
A
.I request_idle
value of
.B DAT_TRUE
specifies that there are no
outstanding or in-progress Send, RDMA Read, and RDMA Write DTOs, and RMR
Binds at the Endpoint, and
.B DAT_FALSE
otherwise.
.sp
.LP
This call provides a snapshot of the Endpoint status only. No heroic
synchronization with DTO queuing or processing is implied.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I ep_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
