'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_pz_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_pz_query \- provides parameters of the Protection Zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_pz_query (
    IN    DAT_PZ_HANDLE        pz_handle,
    IN    DAT_PZ_PARAM_MASK    pz_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_PZ_PARAM         *pz_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pz_handle:
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Handle for the created instance of the Protection Zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pz_param_mask:
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Mask for Protection Zone parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pz_param:
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with
Protection Zone parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_pz_query()
function provides the Consumer parameters of the
Protection Zone. The Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer-allocated
structures for Protection Zone parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The
.I pz_param_mask
parameter allows Consumers to specify which
parameters to query. The Provider returns values for
.I pz_param_mask
requested parameters. The Provider can return values for any other
parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I pz_param_mask
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I pz_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
