'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_evd_clear_unwaitable 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_clear_unwaitable \- transition the Event Dispatcher into a waitable
state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_clear_unwaitable(
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I evd_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_evd_clear_unwaitable()
transitions the Event Dispatcher into
a waitable state. In this state, calls to
.BR dat_evd_wait (3DAT)
are
permitted on the EVD. The actual state of the Event Dispatcher is accessible
through \fBdat_evd_query\fR(3DAT) and is \fBDAT_EVD_WAITABLE\fR after the
return of this operation.
.sp
.LP
This call does not affect a CNO associated with this EVD at all. Events
arriving on the EVD after it is set waitable still trigger the CNO (if
appropriate), and can be retrieved with
.BR dat_evd_dequeue (3DAT).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I evd_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_evd_dequeue (3DAT),
.BR dat_evd_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_evd_set_unwaitable (3DAT),
.BR dat_evd_wait (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
