'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_pz_create 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_pz_create \- create an instance of the Protection Zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_pz_create (
    IN    DAT_IA_HANDLE    ia_handle,
    OUT   DAT_PZ_HANDLE    *pz_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ia_handle
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Handle for an open instance of the IA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pz_handle
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Handle for the created instance of Protection Zone.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_pz_create()
function creates an instance of the Protection
Zone. The Protection Zone provides Consumers a mechanism for association
Endpoints with LMRs and RMRs to provide protection for local and remote
memory accesses by DTOs.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Invalid parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I ia_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
