'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_registry_remove_provider 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_registry_remove_provider \- unregister the Provider from the Dynamic
Registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_registry_remove_provider  (
    IN       DAT_PROVIDER         *provider
    IN const DAT_PROVIDER_INFO    *provider_info
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I provider
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Self-description of a Provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I provider_info
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Attributes of the Provider.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Provider removes itself from the Dynamic Registry. It is the Provider's
responsibility to complete its sessions. Removal of the registration only
prevents new sessions.
.sp
.LP
The Provider cannot be removed while it is in use. An attempt to remove the
Provider while it is in use results in an error with the return code
.BR DAT_PROVIDER_IN_USE .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Invalid parameter. The Provider was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_PROVIDER_IN_USE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The Provider was in use.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
