'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_registry_add_provider 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_registry_add_provider \- declare the Provider with the Dynamic
Registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_registry_add_provider (
    IN    const DAT_PROVIDER          *provider,
    IN    const DAT_PROVIDER_INFO     *provider_info
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I provider
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Self-description of a Provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I provider_info
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Attributes of the Provider.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Provider declares itself with the Dynamic Registry. Note that the
caller can choose to register itself multiple times, for example once for
each port. The choice of what to virtualize is up to the Provider. Each
registration provides an Interface Adapter to DAT. Each Provider must have a
unique name.
.sp
.LP
The same IA Name cannot be added multiple times. An attempt to register the
same IA Name again results in an error with the return value
.BR DAT_PROVIDER_ALREADY_REGISTERED .
.sp
.LP
The contents of provider_info must be the same as those the Consumer uses
in the call to
.BR dat_ia_open "(3DAT) directly, or the ones provided"
indirectly defined by the header files with which the Consumer compiled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum number of Providers was already registered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_PROVIDER_ALREADY_REGISTERED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid or nonunique name.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_ia_open (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
