'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_set_consumer_context 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_set_consumer_context \- set Consumer context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_set_consumer_context (
    IN    DAT_HANDLE    \fIdat_handle\fR,
    IN    DAT_CONTEXT   \fIcontext\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dat_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for a DAT Object associated with
.IR context .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I context
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Consumer context to be stored within the associated
.IR dat_handle .
The
Consumer context is opaque to the uDAPL Provider.
.I NULL
represents no
context.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_set_consumer_context()
function associates a Consumer context
with the specified
.IR dat_handle .
The
.I dat_handle
can be one of the
following handle types:
.BR DAT_IA_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_EP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_EVD_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_CR_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_RSP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_PSP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_PZ_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_LMR_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_RMR_HANDLE ,
or
.BR DAT_CNO_HANDLE .
.sp
.LP
Only a single Consumer context is provided for any
.IR dat_handle .
If
there is a previous Consumer context associated with the specified handle,
the new context replaces the old one. The Consumer can disassociate the
existing context by providing a NULL pointer for the
.IR context .
The
Provider makes no assumptions about the contents of
.IR context ;
no check
is made on its value. Furthermore, the Provider makes no attempt to provide
any synchronization for access or modification of the
.IR context .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I context
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I dat_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_get_consumer_context (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
