'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_srq_resize 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_srq_resize \- modify the size of the shared receive queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_srq_resize (
    IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle,
    IN      DAT_COUNT           srq_max_recv_dto
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srq_handle
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
A handle for an instance of the SRQ.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srq_max_recv_dto
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
The new maximum number of Recv DTOs that Shared Receive Queue must hold.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_srq_resize()
function modifies the size of the queue of SRQ.
.sp
.LP
Resizing of Shared Receive Queue should not cause any incoming messages on any
of the EPs that use the SRQ to be lost. If the number of outstanding Recv
buffers on the SRQ is larger then the requested
.IR srq_max_recv_dto ,
the
operation returns
.B DAT_INVALID_STATE
and do not change SRQ. This includes
not just the buffers on the SRQ but all outstanding Receive buffers that had
been posted to the SRQ and whose completions have not reaped yet. Thus, the
outstanding buffers include the buffers on SRQ, the buffers posted to SRQ at
are at SRQ associated EPs, and the buffers posted to SRQ for which completions
have been generated but not yet reaped by Consumer from recv_evds of the EPs
that use the SRQ.
.sp
.LP
If the requested
.I srq_max_recv_dto
is below the SRQ low watermark, the
operation returns
.B DAT_INVALID_STATE
and does not change SRQ.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I srq_handle
argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I srq_max_recv_dto
argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_STATE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Invalid state. Either the number of entries on the SRQ exceeds the requested
SRQ queue length or the requested SRQ queue length is smaller than the SRQ low
watermark.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_srq_resize()
function is required not to lose any buffers. Thus,
it cannot shrink below the outstanding number of Recv buffers on SRQ. There is
no requirement to shrink the SRQ to return
.BR DAT_SUCCESS .
.sp
.LP
The quality of the implementation determines how closely to the
Consumer-requested value the Provider shrinks the SRQ. For example, the
Provider can shrink the SRQ to the Consumer-requested value and if the
requested value is smaller than the outstanding buffers on SRQ, return
.BR DAT_INVALID_STATE ;
or the Provider can shrink to some value larger than
that requested by the Consumer but below current SRQ size; or the Provider does
not change the SRQ size and still returns
.BR DAT_SUCCESS .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_srq_create (3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_free\fR(3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_post_recv (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_set_lw (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
