'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_srq_set_lw 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_srq_set_lw \- set low watermark on shared receive queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_srq_set_lw (
        IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle,
        IN      DAT_COUNT           low_watermark
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srq_handle
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
A handle for an instance of a Shared Receive Queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I low_watermark
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
The low watermark for the number of Recv buffers on SRQ.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_srq_set_lw()
function sets the low watermark value for the
SRQ and arms the SRQ for generating an asynchronous event for the low
watermark. An asynchronous event will be generated when the number of
buffers on the SRQ is below the low watermark for the first time. This can
occur during the current call or when an associated EP takes a buffer from
the SRQ.
.sp
.LP
The asynchronous event will be generated only once per setting of the low
watermark. Once an event is generated, no new asynchronous events for the
number of buffers inthe SRQ below the specified value will be generated
until the SRQ is again set for the Low Watermark. If the Consumer is again
interested in the event, the Consumer should set the low watermark again.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The
.I srq_handle
argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
Invalid parameter; the value of
.I low_watermark
is exceeds the value of
.IR max_recv_dtos .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The requested Model was not supported by the Provider. The Provider does
not support SRQ Low Watermark.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Upon receiving the asynchronous event for the SRQ low watermark, the
Consumer can replenish Recv buffers on the SRQ or take any other action that
is appropriate.
.sp
.LP
Regardless of whether an asynchronous event for the low watermark has been
generated, this operation will set the generation of an asynchronous event
with the Consumer-provided low watermark value. If the new low watermark
value is below the current number of free Receive DTOs posted to the SRQ, an
asynchronous event will be generated immediately. Otherwise the old low
watermark value is simply replaced with the new one.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_srq_create (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_free (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_post_recv (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_resize (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
