'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_ep_post_recv 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_post_recv \- receive data over the connection of the Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_post_recv (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE        ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_COUNT            num_segments,
    IN    DAT_LMR_TRIPLET      *local_iov,
    IN    DAT_DTO_COOKIE       user_cookie,
    IN    DAT_COMPLETION_FLAGS completion_flags
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_handle
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I num_segments
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Number of
.I lmr_triplets
in
.IR local_iov .
Can be 0 for receiving a 0 size
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I local_iov
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
I/O Vector that specifies the local buffer to be filled. Can be
.I NULL
for
receiving a 0 size message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I user_cookie:
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
User-provided cookie that is returned to the Consumer at the completion of the
Receive DTO. Can be
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I completion_flags
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt
Flags for posted Receive. The default
.B DAT_COMPLETION_DEFAULT_FLAG
is 0x00.
Other values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B Notification of Completion
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
.B DAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B 0x04
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Non-notification completion. Local Endpoint must be configured for Unsignaled
CompletionNotification Suppression.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_ep_post_recv()
function requests the receive of the data over the
connection of the
.I ep_handle
Endpoint of the incoming message into the
.IR local_iov .
.sp
.LP
The
.I num_segments
parameter specifies the number of segments in the
.IR local_iov .
The
.I local_iov
segments are filled in the I/O Vector order
until the whole message is received. This ensures that all the "front" segments
of the
.I local_iov
I/O Vector are completely filled, only one segment is
partially filled, if needed, and all segments that follow it are not filled at
all.
.sp
.LP
The
.I user_cookie
allows Consumers to have unique identifiers for each DTO.
These identifiers are completely under user control and are opaque to the
Provider. There is no requirement on the Consumer that the value
.I user_cookie
should be unique for each DTO. The
.I user_cookie
is
returned to the Consumer in the Completion event for the posted Receive.
.sp
.LP
The completion of the posted Receive is reported to the Consumer asynchronously
through a DTO Completion event based on the configuration of the connection for
Solicited Wait and the specified
.I completion_flags
value for the matching
Send. The value of
.B "DAT_COMPLETION _UNSIGNALLED_FLAG"
is only valid if the
Endpoint Recv Completion Flags
.BR DAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG .
Otherwise,
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
is returned.
.sp
.LP
A Consumer must not modify the
.I local_iov
or its content until the DTO is
completed. When a Consumer does not adhere to this rule, the behavior of the
Provider and the underlying Transport is not defined. Providers that allow
Consumers to get ownership of the
.I local_iov
but not the memory it specified
back after the
.B dat_ep_post_recv()
returns should document this behavior and
also specify its support in Provider attributes. This behavior allows Consumer
full control of the
.I local_iov
content after
.BR dat_ep_post_recv()
returns. Because this behavior is not guaranteed by all Providers, portable
Consumers should not rely on this behavior. Consumers  shouldnot rely on the
Provider copying
.I local_iov
information.
.sp
.LP
The
.B DAT_SUCCESS
return of the
.B dat_ep_post_recv()
is at least the
equivalent of posting a Receive operation directly by native Transport. Providers
should avoid resource allocation as part of
.B dat_ep_post_recv()
to ensure
that this operation is nonblocking and thread safe for an UpCall.
.sp
.LP
If the size of an incoming message is larger than the size of the
.IR local_iov ,
the reported status of the posted Receive DTO in the
corresponding Completion DTO event is
.BR DAT_DTO_LENGTH_ERROR .
If the reported
status of the Completion DTO event corresponding to the posted Receive DTO is not
.BR DAT_DTO_SUCCESS ,
the content of the
.I local_iov
is not defined.
.sp
.LP
The operation is valid for all states of the Endpoint. The actual data transfer
does not take place until the Endpoint is in the
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED
state. The operation on the Endpoint in
.B DAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED
is
allowed. If the operation returns successfully, the posted Recv is immediately
flushed to
.IR recv_evd_handle .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Invalid parameter. For example, one of the IOV segments pointed to a memory
outside its LMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I ep_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_PROTECTION_VIOLATION
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Protection violation for local or remote memory access. Protection Zone mismatch
between an LMR of one of the
.I local_iov
segments and the local Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_PRIVILEGES_VIOLATION
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
Privileges violation for local or remote memory access. One of the LMRs used in
.I local_iov
was either invalid or did not have the local read privileges.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For best Recv operation performance, the Consumer should align each buffer
segment of
.I local_iov
to the Optimal Buffer Alignment attribute of the
Provider. For portable applications, the Consumer should align each buffer
segment of
.I local_iov
to the
.BR DAT_OPTIMAL_ALIGNMENT .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
