'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_ep_set_watermark 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_set_watermark \- set high watermark on Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_set_watermark (
    IN      DAT_EP_HANDLE      ep_handle,
    IN      DAT_COUNT          soft_high_watermark,
    IN      DAT_COUNT          hard_high_watermark
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_handle
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The handle for an instance of an Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I soft_high_watermark
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The soft high watermark for the number of Recv buffers consumed by the
Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I hard_high_watermark
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt
The hard high watermark for the number of Recv buffers consumed by the
Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_ep_set_watermark()
function sets the soft and hard high
watermark values for EP and arms EP for generating asynchronous events for
high watermarks. An asynchronous event will be generated for IA
.I async_evd
when the number of Recv buffers at EP exceeds the soft high
watermark for the first time. A connection broken event will be generated
for EP
.I connect_evd
when the number of Recv buffers at EP exceeds the
hard high watermark. These can occur during this call or when EP takes a
buffer from the SRQ or EP RQ. The soft and hard high watermark asynchronous
event generation and setting are independent of each other.
.sp
.LP
The asynchronous event for a soft high watermark is generated only once per
setting. Once an event is generated, no new asynchronous events for the soft
high watermark is generated until the EP is again set for the soft high
watermark. If the Consumer is once again interested in the event, the
Consumer should again set the soft high watermark.
.sp
.LP
If the Consumer is not interested in a soft or hard high watermark, the
value of
.B DAT_WATERMARK_INFINITE
can be specified for the case that is
the default value. This value specifies that a non-asynchronous event will
be generated for a high watermark EP attribute for which this value is set.
It does not prevent generation of a connection broken event for EP when no
Recv buffer is available for a message arrived on the EP connection.
.sp
.LP
The operation is supported for all states of Endpoint.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The
.I ep_handle
argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
One of the parameters is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt
The requested Model was not supported by the Provider. The Provider does
not support EP Soft or Hard High Watermarks.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For a hard high watermark, the Provider is ready to generate a connection
broken event as soon as the connection is established.
.sp
.LP
If the asynchronous event for a soft or hard high watermark has not yet
been generated, this call simply modifies the values for these attributes.
The Provider remains armed for generation of these asynchronous events.
.sp
.LP
Regardless of whether an asynchronous event for the soft and hard high
watermark has been generated, this operation will set the generation of an
asynchronous event with the Consumer-provided high watermark values. If the
new high watermark values are below the current number of Receive DTOs at
EP, an asynchronous event will be generated immediately. Otherwise the old
soft or hard (or both) high watermark values are simply replaced with the
new ones.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_ep_create (3DAT),
.BR dat_ep_recv_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_create (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_free (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_post_recv (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_resize (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_set_lw (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
