'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_srq_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_srq_free \- destroy an instance of the shared receive queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_srq_free (
    IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srq_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
A handle for an instance of SRQ to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_srq_free()
function destroys an instance of the SRQ. The SRQ
cannot be destroyed if it is in use by an EP.
.sp
.LP
It is illegal to use the destroyed handle in any consequent operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I srq_handle
argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SRQ_IN_USE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The Shared Receive Queue can not be destroyed because it is in still
associated with an EP instance.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the Provider detects the use of a deleted object handle, it should
return
.BR DAT_INVALID_HANDLE .
The Provider should avoid assigning the
used handle as long as possible. Once reassigned the handle is no longer a
handle of a destroyed object.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_srq_create (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_post_recv (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_query (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_resize (3DAT),
.BR dat_srq_set_lw (3DAT),
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
