'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_cno_modify_agent 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_cno_modify_agent \- modify the OS Wait Proxy Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cno_modify_agent (
    IN    DAT_CNO_HANDLE            \fIcno_handle\fR,
    IN    DAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT   \fIagent\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cno_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of CNO
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I agent
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to an optional OS Wait Proxy Agent to invoke whenever CNO is
invoked.
.B DAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT_NULL
indicates that there is no proxy
agent.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_cno_modify_agent()
function modifies the OS Wait Proxy Agent
associated with a CNO. If non-null, any trigger received by the CNO is also
passed to the OS Wait Proxy Agent. This is in addition to any local delivery
through the CNO. The Consumer can pass the value of
.B DAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT_NULL
to disassociate the current Proxy agent
from the CNO
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I cno_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
One of the parameters was invalid, out of range, or a combination of
parameters was invalid, or the
.I agent
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
