'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_psp_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_psp_query \- provide parameters of the Public Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_psp_query (
    IN    DAT_PSP_HANDLE        psp_handle,
    IN    DAT_PSP_PARAM_MASK    psp_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_PSP_PARAM         *psp_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I psp_handle
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Handle for an instance of Public Service Point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I psp_param_mask
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Mask for PSP parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I psp_param
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that Provider fills for
Consumer-requested parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_psp_query()
function provides to the Consumer parameters of
the Public Service Point. Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer
allocated structures for PSP parameters that Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The
.I psp_param_mask
parameter allows Consumers to specify which
parameters they would like to query. The Provider will return values for
.I psp_param_mask
requested parameters. The Provider may return the value
for any of the other parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I psp_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I psp_param_mask
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
