'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_ep_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_free \- destroy an instance of the Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_free (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE    ep_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_handle
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_ep_free()
function destroys an instance of the Endpoint.
.sp
.LP
The Endpoint can be destroyed in any Endpoint state except Reserved,
Passive Connection Pending, and Tentative Connection Pending. The
destruction of the Endpoint can also cause the destruction of DTOs and RMRs
posted to the Endpoint and not dequeued yet. This includes completions for
all outstanding and in-progress DTOs/RMRs. The Consumer must be ready for
all completions that are not dequeued yet either still being on the Endpoint
.I recv_evd_handle
and
.I request_evd_handle
or not being there.
.sp
.LP
The destruction of the Endpoint during connection setup aborts connection
establishment.
.sp
.LP
If the Endpoint is in the Reserved state, the Consumer shall first destroy
the associated Reserved Service Point that transitions the Endpoint into the
Unconnected state where the Endpoint can be destroyed. If the Endpoint is in
the Passive Connection Pending state, the Consumer shall first reject the
associated Connection Request that transitions the Endpoint into the
Unconnected state where the Endpoint can be destroyed. If the Endpoint is in
the Tentative Connection Pending state, the Consumer shall reject the
associated Connection Request that transitions the Endpoint back to Provider
control, and the Endpoint is destroyed as far as the Consumer is
concerned.
.sp
.LP
The freeing of an Endpoint also destroys an Event Stream for each of the
associated Event Dispatchers.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Endpoint in any subsequent operation
except for the
.B dat_ep_free()
fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I ep_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_STATE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
Parameter in an invalid state. The Endpoint is in
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_RESERVED ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
or
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
