'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_rmr_create 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_create \- create an RMR for the specified Protection Zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_create(
    IN    DAT_PZ_HANDLE     pz_handle,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_HANDLE    *rmr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pz_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Protection Zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rmr_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for the created instance of an RMR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_rmr_create()
function creates an RMR for the specified
Protection Zone. This operation is relatively heavy. The created RMR can be
bound to a memory region within the LMR through a lightweight
.BR dat_rmr_bind (3DAT)
operation that generates
.IR rmr_context .
.sp
.LP
If the operation fails (does not return
.BR DAT_SUCCESS ),
the return
values of
.I rmr_handle
are undefined and Consumers should not use
them.
.sp
.LP
The
.I pz_handle
parameter provide Consumers a way to restrict access to
an RMR by authorized connection only.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I pz_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dat_rmr_bind (3DAT)
, \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
