'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_ep_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_query \- provide parameters of the Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_query (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE        ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_EP_PARAM_MASK    ep_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_EP_PARAM         *ep_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_handle
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_param_mask
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Mask for Endpoint parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ep_param
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with
Endpoint parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_ep_query()
function provides the Consumer parameters,
including attributes and status, of the Endpoint. Consumers pass in a
pointer to Consumer-allocated structures for Endpoint parameters that the
Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The
.I ep_param_mask
parameter allows Consumers to specify which
parameters to query. The Provider returns values for \fIep_param_mask\fR
requested parameters. The Provider can return values for any other
parameters.
.sp
.LP
Some of the parameters only have values for certain Endpoint states.
Specifically, the values for
.I remote_ia_address
and
\fIremote_port_qual\fR are valid only for Endpoints in the
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECT_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_COMPLETION_PENDING ,
or
.B DAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED
states. The values of \fIlocal_port_qual\fR
is valid only for Endpoints in the
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECT_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_COMPLETION_PENDING ,
or
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED
states, and might be valid for \fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_RESERVED ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
.BR DAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING ,
and
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR states.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I ep_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I ep_param_mask
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
