'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_psp_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_psp_free \- destroy an instance of the Public Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_psp_free (
    IN    DAT_PSP_HANDLE    psp_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I psp_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the Public Service Point.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_psp_free()
function destroys a specified instance of the
Public Service Point.
.sp
.LP
Any incoming Connection Requests for the Connection Qualifier on the
destroyed Service Point it had been listening on are automatically rejected
by the Provider with the return analogous to the no listening Service
Point.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the Connection Requests in progress is undefined and left
to an implementation. But it must be consistent. This means that either a
Connection Requested Event has been generated for the Event Dispatcher
associated with the Service Point, including the creation of the Connection
Request instance, or the Connection Request is rejected by the Provider
without any local notification.
.sp
.LP
This operation shall have no effect on previously generated Connection
Requested Events. This includes Connection Request instances and,
potentially, Endpoint instances created by the Provider.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this operation with creation of a Service Point on the same
Connection Qualifier at the same time is not defined. Consumers are advised
to avoid this scenario.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Public Service Point in any consequent
operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I psp_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
