'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_get_handle_type 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_get_handle_type \- get handle type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_get_handle_typet (
    IN    DAT_HANDLE        \fIdat_handle\fR,
    OUT   DAT_HANDLE_TYPE   *\fIhandle_type\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dat_handle
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Handle for a DAT Object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I handle_type
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Type of the handle of
.IR dat_handle .
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_get_handle_type()
function allows the Consumer to discover
the type of a DAT Object using its handle.
.sp
.LP
The
.I dat_handle
can be one of the following handle types:
.BR DAT_IA_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_EP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_EVD_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_CR_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_RSP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_PSP_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_PZ_HANDLE ,
.BR DAT_LMR_HANDLE ,
or
.BR DAT_RMR_HANDLE .
.sp
.LP
The
.I handle_type
is one of the following handle types:
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_IA ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_EP ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_EVD ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_CR ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_PSP ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_RSP ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_PZ ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_LMR ,
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_RMR ,
or
.BR DAT_HANDLE_TYPE_CNO .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I dat_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Consumers can use this operation to determine the type of Object being
returned. This is needed for calling an appropriate query or any other
operation on the Object handle.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
