'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_rmr_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_query \- provide RMR parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_query (
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE        rmr_handle,
    IN    DAT_RMR_PARAM_MASK    rmr_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_PARAM         *rmr_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rmr_handle
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the RMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rmr_param_mask
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Mask for RMR parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rmr_param
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with RMR
parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_rmr_query()
function provides RMR parameters to the Consumer. The
Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer-allocated structures for RMR
parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The
.I rmr_param_mask
parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters
to query. The Provider returns values for
.I rmr_param_mask
requested
parameters. The Provider can return values for any other parameters.
.sp
.LP
Not all parameters can have a value at all times. For example,
.IR lmr_handle ,
.IR target_address ,
.IR segment_length ,
.IR mem_privileges ,
and
.I rmr_context
are not defined for an unbound
RMR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I rmr_param_mask
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I mr_handle
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
