'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_cr_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_cr_query \- provide parameters of the Connection Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cr_query (
    IN    DAT_CR_HANDLE        cr_handle,
    IN    DAT_CR_PARAM_MASK    cr_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_CR_PARAM         *cr_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr_handle
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Handle for an instance of a Connection Request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr_param_mask
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Mask for Connection Request parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr_param
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills for
Consumer-requested parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_cr_query()
function provides to the Consumer parameters of
the Connection Request. The Consumer passes in a pointer to the
Consumer-allocated structures for Connection Request parameters that the
Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The
.I cr_param_mask
parameter allows Consumers to specify which
parameters to query. The Provider returns values for
.I cr_param_mask
requested parameters. The Provider can return values for any other
parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I cr_handle
handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The
.I cr_param_mask
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The Consumer uses
.B dat_cr_query()
to get information about requesting
a remote Endpoint as well as a local Endpoint if it was allocated by the
Provider for the arrived Connection Request. The local Endpoint is created
if the Consumer used PSP with
.B DAT_PSP_PROVIDER
as the value for
.IR psp_flags .
For the remote Endpoint,
.B dat_cr_query()
provides
.I remote_ia_address
and
.IR remote_port_qual .
It also provides remote
.I peer private_data
and its size.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
