'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_registry_list_providers 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_registry_list_providers \- obtain a list of available pProviders from
the Static Registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
typedef struct dat_provider_info {
    char ia_name[DAT_NAME_MAX_LENGTH];
    DAT_UINT32      dapl_version_major;
    DAT_UINT32      dapl_version_minor;
    DAT_BOOLEAN     is_thread_safe;
    } DAT_PROVIDER_INFO;

cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_registry_list_providers (
    IN    DAT_COUNT          max_to_return,
    OUT   DAT_COUNT          *number_entries,
    OUT   DAT_PROVIDER_INFO  *(dat_provider_list[])
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I max_to_return
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Maximum number of entries that can be returned to the Consumer in the
.IR dat_provider_list .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I number_entries
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The actual number of entries returned to the Consumer in the
.I dat_provider_list
if successful or the number of Providers
available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dat_provider_list
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
Points to an array of
.B DAT_PROVIDER_INFO
pointers supplied by the
Consumer. Each Provider's information will be copied to the destination
specified.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_registry_list_providers()
function allows the Consumer to
obtain a list of available Providers from the Static Registry. The
information provided is the Interface Adapter name, the uDAPL/kDAPL API
version supported, and whether the provided version is thread-safe. The
Consumer can examine the attributes to determine which (if any) Interface
Adapters it wants to open. This operation has no effect on the Registry
itself.
.sp
.LP
The Registry can open an IA using a Provider whose
.IR dapl_version_minor
is larger than the one the Consumer requests if no Provider entry matches
exactly. Therefore, Consumers should expect that an IA can be opened
successfully as long as at least one Provider entry returned by
.B dat_registry_list_providers()
matches the
.IR ia_name ,
.IR dapl_version_major ,
and
.I is_thread_safe
fields exactly, and has a
.I dapl_version_minor
that is equal to or greater than the version
requested.
.sp
.LP
If the operation is successful, the returned value is
.B DAT_SUCCESS
and
.I number_entries
indicates the number of entries filled by the registry
in
.IR dat_provider_list .
.sp
.LP
If the operation is not successful, then
.I number_entries
returns the
number of entries in the registry. Consumers can use this return to allocate
.I dat_provider_list
large enough for the registry entries. This number
is just a snapshot at the time of the call and may be changed by the time of
the next call. If the operation is not successful, then the content of
.I dat_provider_list
is not defined.
.sp
.LP
If
.I dat_provider_list
.RI "is too small, including pointing to" " NULL"
for the registry entries, then the operation fails with the return
.BR DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_PARAMETER
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Invalid parameter. For example,
.I dat_provider_list
is too small or
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INTERNAL_ERROR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt
Internal error. The DAT static registry is missing.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
.B DAT_NAME_MAX_LENGTH
includes the null character for string
termination.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
