'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH dat_rmr_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_free \- destroy an instance of the RMR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_free (
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE    rmr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rmr_handle
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Handle for an instance of the RMR to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_rmr_free()
function destroys an instance of the RMR.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed RMR in any subsequent operation except
for the
.B dat_rmr_free()
fails. Any remote RDMA operation that uses the
destroyed RMR
.IR rmr_context ,
whose Transport-specific request arrived to
the local host after the
.B dat_rmr_free()
has completed, fails and
reports a protection violation. Remote RDMA operation that uses the
destroyed RMR
.IR rmr_context ,
whose Transport-specific request arrived to
the local host prior to the
.B dat_rmr_free()
return, might or might not
complete successfully. If it fails,
.B DAT_DTO_ERR_REMOTE_ACCESS
is
reported in
.B DAT_DTO_COMPLETION_STATUS
for the remote RDMA DTO and the
connection is broken.
.sp
.LP
The
.B dat_rmr_free()
function is allowed on either bound or unbound
RMR. If RMR is bound,
.B dat_rmr_free()
unbinds (free HCA TPT and other
resources and whatever else binds with length of 0 should do), and then free
RMR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_SUCCESS
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B DAT_INVALID_HANDLE
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
The
.I rmr_handle
handle is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libdat (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5)
