'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_W 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_W \- YUV to RGB color conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_W\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIabgr\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIy\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIu\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIv\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIabgr_stride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIy_stride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIuv_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIleft\fR,\fBmlib_s32\fR \fItop\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIright\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIbottom\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_W()
function performs YUV to RGB color
conversion used in MPEG1 and MPEG2 video compression in the 4:2:0 sequence.
It performs color conversion together with window clipping.
.sp
.LP
The luminance component is stored in Y, the chrominance components are
stored in U and V, respectively. The size of the chrominance image depends
on the chroma format used by the sequence. In this sequence, the chrominance
components are subsampled 2-to-1 in both the horizontal and vertical
directions in respect to the luminance component.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I abgr
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Pointer to the destination packed ABGR image. abgr must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Pointer to the source Y component. y must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I u
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Pointer to the source U component. u must be 4-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I v
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Pointer to the source V component. v must be 4-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Width of the image. width must be a multiple of 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Height of the image. height must be a multiple of 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I abgr_stride
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the ABGR image. abgr_stride must
be a multiple of 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y_stride
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the Y component image. y_stride
must be a multiple of 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I uv_stride
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the U and V component images.
uv_stride must be a multiple of 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I left
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Left border of clipping window.
.BR "0 \(<= left < right \(<= width" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I top
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Top border of clipping window.
.BR "0 \(<= top < bottom \(<= height" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I right
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Left border of clipping window.
.BR "0 \(<= left < right \(<= width" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I bottom
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Bottom border of clipping window.
.BR "0 \(<= top < bottom \(<= height" .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_WX2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_WX3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_X2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420_X3 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
