'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8 \- copies a block from the reference block to the
current block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8()
function copies a block from the
reference block to the motion-compensated reference block. The stride
applies to only the input reference block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mc_block
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the motion-compensated reference block. mc_block must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ref_block
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Width of the blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Height of the blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the reference block. stride must
be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
