'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageSetPaddings 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageSetPaddings \- set paddings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageSetPaddings\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_u8\fR \fIleft\fR,
     \fBmlib_u8\fR \fItop\fR, \fBmlib_u8\fR \fIright\fR, \fBmlib_u8\fR \fIbottom\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageSetPaddings()
function sets new values for the
.B paddings
field of the
.B mlib_image
structure as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
img->paddings[0] = left;
img->paddings[1] = top;
img->paddings[2] = right;
img->paddings[3] = bottom;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
By default, an image structure creation function, such as
.BR mlib_ImageCreate() ,
.BR mlib_ImageCreateStruct() ,
or
.BR mlib_ImageCreateSubimage() ,
sets the paddings field of the mlib_image
structure as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
img->paddings[0] = 0;
img->paddings[1] = 0;
img->paddings[2] = 0;
img->paddings[3] = 0;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that this function is needed only when the edge condition
.B MLIB_EDGE_SRC_PADDED
is used.
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_image->paddings
field denotes the amount of paddings on each
side of an image, from which the real image border can be seen. When
.B MLIB_EDGE_SRC_PADDED
is specified as the edge condition, a geometric
function uses the "real" source image border for clipping the destination
image.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I img
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to image data structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I left
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of columns padded on the left side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I top
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of rows padded on the top.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I right
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of columns padded on the right side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I bottom
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of rows padded at the bottom.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageGetPaddings (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreate (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreateStruct (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreateSubimage (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageAffine (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
