'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoSumAbsDiff 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoSumAbsDiff \- motion estimation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_s32\fR \fBmlib_VideoSumAbsDiff\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIcurr_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoSumAbsDiff()
function computes the sum of absolute
differences between the pixels in the current block and the corresponding
pixels in the reference block.
.sp
.LP
Both the current block and the reference block belong to frames with the
same dimension. (The stride is applicable to both.) Motion estimation
computes the sum of the absolute differences between the current block and
reference blocks at different locations in the reference frame, choosing the
best fit (least sum of absolute difference) to calculate the motion
vector.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I curr_block
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the current block. curr_block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ref_block
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Width of the block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Height of the block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in a block. stride must be a
multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a value of type
.BR mlib_s32 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
