'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16_Adp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16_Adp \- convert linear prediction coefficients
to cepstral coefficients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16_Adp\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIcepst\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32 *\fIcscale\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIlpc\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlscale\fR,
     \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIgain\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIgscale\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlength\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIorder\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16_Adp()
function converts linear
prediction coefficients to cepstral coefficients. The scaling factor of the
output data,
.IR cscale ,
will be calculated based on the actual data.
.sp
.LP
The cepstral coefficients are the coefficients of the Fourier transform
representation of the log magnitude spectrum.
.sp
.LP
The LPC cepstral coefficients can be derived recursively from the LPC
coefficients as following.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
c(0) = log(G)

              m-1  k
c(m) = a(m) + SUM --- * c(k) * a(m-k), 1 \(<= m \(<= M
              k=1  m

       m-1  k
c(m) = SUM --- * c(k) * a(m-k), m > M
       k=1  m
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See
.I "Fundamentals of Speech Recognition"
by Lawrence Rabiner and
Biing-Hwang Juang, Prentice Hall, 1993.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cepst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The cepstral coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of the cepstral coefficients, where \fBactual_data =
output_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lpc
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The linear prediction coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of the linear prediction coefficients, where
.BR "actual_data = input_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gain
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The gain of the LPC model.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of the gain of the LPC model, where \fBactual_data =
input_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I length
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The length of the cepstral coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I order
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The order of the linear prediction filter.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16 (3MLIB),
mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_S16_Adp(3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLPC2Cepstral_F32 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
