'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageRotate90 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageRotate90 \- rotate an image by 90 degrees
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageRotate90\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Rotate an image 90 degrees clockwise.
.sp
.LP
The width and height of the destination image can be different from the
width and height of the source image. The center of the source image is
mapped to the center of the destination image.
.sp
.LP
The data type of the images can be
.BR MLIB_BIT ,
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
or
.BR MLIB_INT .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageFlipAntiDiag (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipAntiDiag_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipMainDiag (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipMainDiag_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipX (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipX_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipY (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageFlipY_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRotate90_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRotate180 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRotate180_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRotate270 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRotate270_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
