'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8 \- applies a 2-dimensional (2D) 3x3 spatial filter
on the reference block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(\fBmlib_s16\fR \fImc_block[64]\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8()
function applies a 2-dimensional (2D)
3x3 spatial filter on the reference block. The filter is separable into 1D
horizontal and vertical functions, where the filter coefficients are 0.25,
0.5, 0.25, except at the block edges where the coefficients are 0, 1, 0. In
this mode, the output must be added to the IDCT output to reconstruct the
block in the current frame. Thus, the stride applies only to the input
reference block. This function requires the motion-compensated block to be
8-bit aligned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mc_block
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the motion-compensated reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ref_block
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Pointer to the reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the reference block.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
