'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorResizeABGR 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorResizeABGR \- image resize
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorResizeABGR\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u32 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_w\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_h\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_lb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc_w\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc_h\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc_lb\fR, \fBmlib_filter\fR \fIfilter\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorResizeABGR()
function resizes the source image
with dimensions
.IR src_w ,
.I src_h
into the destination image with
dimensions
.IR dst_w ,
.I dst_h
using nearest-neighbor, bilinear
interpolation, or bicubic interpolation. The source buffer can contain
multi-banded pixel stream, in which case, each band is resized
independently. Edge conditions are handled according to the
.B MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
scheme.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to output image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst_w
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Output image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst_h
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Output image height in rows.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst_lb
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Input image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src_w
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Linebytes for input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src_h
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Input image height in lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src_lb
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Linebytes for input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filter
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Type of interpolation filter. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_NEAREST
MLIB_BILINEAR
MLIB_BICUBIC
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
