'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert \- kernel conversion for separable
convolution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert\fR(\fBmlib_s32 *\fIihkernel\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32 *\fIivkernel\fR, \fBmlib_s32 *\fIiscale\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIfhkernel\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIfvkernel\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIm\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR, \fBmlib_type\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert()\fR function converts a floating-point
separable convolution kernel to an integer kernel with its scaling factor,
which is suitable to be used in separable convolution functions.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIihkernel\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to integer horizontal kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIivkernel\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to integer vertical kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIiscale\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Scaling factor of the integer convolution kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfhkernel\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to floating-point horizontal kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfvkernel\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to floating-point vertical kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIm\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Width of the convolution kernel. \fBm\fR must be an odd number larger than
\fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Height of the convolution kernel. \fBn\fR must be an odd number larger than
\fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fItype\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The image type.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns
\fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageSConv3x3\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv3x3_Fp\fR(3MLIB),
\fBmlib_ImageSConv5x5\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv5x5_Fp\fR(3MLIB),
\fBmlib_ImageSConv7x7\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv7x7_Fp\fR(3MLIB),
\fBmlib_ImageConvKernelConvert\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
