'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageColorRGB2HSV 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageColorRGB2HSV \- RGB to HSV color conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageColorRGB2HSV\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageColorRGB2HSV()
function performs a conversion from
red/green/blue to hue/saturation/value. The source and destination images
must be three-channel images.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   V = max(R, G, B)
Vmin = min(R, G, B)

   S = (V - Vmin)/V

   H = (5.0 + (V - B)/(V - Vmin))/6  if R = V and G = Vmin
   H = (1.0 - (V - G)/(V - Vmin))/6  if R = V and B = Vmin
   H = (1.0 + (V - R)/(V - Vmin))/6  if G = V and B = Vmin
   H = (3.0 - (V - B)/(V - Vmin))/6  if G = V and R = Vmin
   H = (3.0 + (V - G)/(V - Vmin))/6  if B = V and R = Vmin
   H = (5.0 - (V - R)/(V - Vmin))/6  if B = V and G = Vmin
   H = 0.0                           if R = G = B
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fB0 \(<= R, G, B, V, Vmin, S \(<= 1\fR and
.BR "0 \(<= H < 1" .
.sp
.LP
Assuming a pixel in the source image is
.B "(r, g, b)"
and its
corresponding pixel in the destination image is
.BR "(h, s, v)" ,
then for
\fBMLIB_BYTE\fR images, the following applies:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   R = r/255
   G = g/255
   B = b/255
   h = H*256
   s = S*255
   v = V*255
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for
.B MLIB_SHORT
images, the following applies:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   R = (r + 32768)/65535
   G = (g + 32768)/65535
   B = (b + 32768)/65535
   h = H*65536 - 32768
   s = S*65535 - 32768
   v = V*65535 - 32768
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for
.B MLIB_USHORT
images, the following applies:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   R = r/65535
   G = g/65535
   B = b/65535
   h = H*65536
   s = S*65535
   v = V*65535
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
and for
.B MLIB_INT
images, the following applies:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   R = (r + 2147483648)/4294967295
   G = (g + 2147483648)/4294967295
   B = (b + 2147483648)/4294967295
   h = H*4294967296 - 2147483648
   s = S*4294967295 - 2147483648
   v = V*4294967295 - 2147483648
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageColorHSV2RGB (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorHSV2RGB_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2HSV_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
