'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_Inp \- reverse byte order of vector, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_Inp\fR(\fBvoid *\fIxz\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_Inp()
function changes the encoding
of each element from big endian to little endian, or from little endian to
big endian.
.sp
.LP
It reverses the byte order of each element of the vector, in place.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I xz
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Pointer to the input and output vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Number of elements in the vectors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I s
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt
Size of elements in bytes.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
