'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageBlendColor_Fp_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageBlendColor_Fp_Inp \- blend an image and a color, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageBlendColor_Fp_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrcdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIcolor\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcmask\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageBlendColor_Fp_Inp()
function blends an image and a
color with the alpha channel.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Cd = Cs*As + Cc*(1 - As)
Ad = 1.0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where, Cs and Cd are the RGB color components of the source and destination
images, respectively.  As and Ad are the alpha components of the source and
destination images, respectively. Cc is the color component of the constant
color.
.sp
.LP
For
.B MLIB_FLOAT
and
.B MLIB_DOUBLE
images, the alpha coefficients
are assumed to be in the range of [0.0, 1.0].
.sp
.LP
The images can have two to four channels. The length of color array must
not be less than the number of channels in the images.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srcdst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Array of constant color components.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmask
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Channel mask to indicate the alpha channel. Each bit of cmask represents a
channel in the image. The channel corresponding to the highest bit with
value 1 is the alpha channel.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageBlendColor_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageBlendColor (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageBlendColor_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
