'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12 \- forward Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12\fR(
     \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIcoeffs[64]\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16\fR \fIblock[64]\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function computes the forward DCT for the destination DCT coefficients
of data type mlib_s16 and source block of data type mlib_s16. The source to
the DCT routine can occupy up to 12 bits for each of its elements.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination buffer addresses must be 8-byte aligned.
.sp
.LP
This function can be used in JPEG with 12-bit precision.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I coeffs
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the output DCT coefficients. Note that
.B coeffs
must be
8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I block
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to an 8x8 block. Note that
.B block
must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT4x4_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B10 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B10_NA (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_U8_NA (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT16x16_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDCT16x16_S16_S16_B10 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
