'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageInterpTableCreate 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageInterpTableCreate \- creates an interpolation table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid *\fBmlib_ImageInterpTableCreate\fR(\fBmlib_type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIleftPadding\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fItopPadding\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsubsampleBitsH\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsubsampleBitsV\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIprecisionBits\fR, \fBconst void *\fIdataH\fR, \fBconst void *\fIdataV\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageInterpTableCreate()
function creates an interpolation
table based on prameters spedified.
.sp
.LP
This function creates an internal data structure, an interpolation table,
which can be used by some image geometric functions for implementing a
table-driven interpolation algorithm.
.sp
.LP
The parameter type defines the type of \fBdataH\fR/\fBdataV\fR input arrays
and can be
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
.BR MLIB_INT ,
.BR MLIB_FLOAT ,
or
.BR MLIB_DOUBLE .
.sp
.LP
The
.B dataH
array should have at least
.BR width*2**subsampleBitsH
entries.
.B dataH[i*2**subsampleBitsH]
holds the coefficient for the
leftmost neighboring pixel,
.B "dataH[i*2**subsampleBitsH + 1]"
holds the
coefficient for the second neighboring pixel from left, .\|.\|., and
.B dataH[i*2**subsampleBitsH + width - 1]
holds the coefficient for the
rightmost neighboring pixel, where \fBi = 0, 1, 2, .\|.\|., 2**subsampleBitsH -
1\fR.
.sp
.LP
The
.B dataV
array should have at least
.BR height*2**subsampleBitsV
entries or should be
.BR NULL .
If
.B dataV
is
.BR NULL ,
then
.B dataH
is used in its place, and in this case the parameters
.BR topPadding ,
.BR height ,
and
.B subsampleBitsV
are ignored.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Data type of the coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Width of the interpolation kernel in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Height of the interpolation kernel in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I leftPadding
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Number of pixels lying to the left of the interpolation kernel key
position.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I topPadding
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Number of pixels lying above the interpolation kernel key position.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I subsampleBitsH
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Numbers of bits used for the horizontal subsample position.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I subsampleBitsV
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Numbers of bits used for the vertical subsample position.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I precisionBits
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Number of fractional bits used to describe the coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dataH
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pointer to horizontal coefficient data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dataV
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
Pointer to vertical coefficient data.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to an interpolation table.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageInterpTableDelete (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageAffineTable (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageZoomTranslateTable (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageGridWarpTable (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImagePolynomialWarpTable (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
