'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageCreateSubimage 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageCreateSubimage \- subimage creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_image *\fBmlib_ImageCreateSubimage\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIx\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIy\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIw\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageCreateSubimage()
function creates a mediaLib image data
structure for a subimage based on a source image. Note that the memory space
of the source image data is used for the subimage data. The data type of the
image can be
.BR MLIB_BIT ,
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
.BR MLIB_INT ,
.BR MLIB_FLOAT ,
or
.BR MLIB_DOUBLE .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I img
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I x
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
X coordinate of subimage origin in the source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Y coordinate of subimage origin in the source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I w
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Width of the subimage in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I h
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Height of the subimage in pixels.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the
.B mlib_image
data structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageCreate (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreateStruct (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageDelete (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSetPaddings (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
