'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_memcpy 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_memcpy \- copy a block of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid *\fBmlib_memcpy\fR(\fBvoid *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst void *\fIsrc\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_memcpy()
function copies
.I n
bytes from memory area
.I src
to
.IR dst .
It returns
.IR dst .
The memory areas may not
overlap. Use
.B mlib_memmove()
if the memory areas do overlap.
.sp
.LP
This function is a wrapper of the standard C function
.BR memcpy() .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the destination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Pointer to the source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt
Number of bytes to be copied.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the destination.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_memmove (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_memset (3MLIB),
.BR memory (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
