'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageDivConstShift 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageDivConstShift \- division by a constant, with shifting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageDivConstShift\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIc\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIshift\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageDivConstShift()
function divides each pixel in an image
by a constant value on a pixel-by-pixel basis. It scales the result by a
left shift and writes the result to the destination image on a
pixel-by-pixel basis.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i] / c[i] * 2**shift
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In the case of c[i] = 0,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = 0              if src[x][y][i] = 0
dst[x][y][i] = DATA_TYPE_MAX  if src[x][y][i] > 0
dst[x][y][i] = DATA_TYPE_MIN  if src[x][y][i] < 0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B DATA_TYPE
is
.BR MLIB_U8 ,
.BR MLIB_S16 ,
.BR MLIB_U16 ,
or
.B MLIB_S32
for an image of type
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
or
.BR MLIB_INT ,
respectively.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I c
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Constant by which each pixel is divided. c[i] contains the constant for
channel i.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I shift
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Left shifting factor.
.BR "0 \(<= shift \(<= 31" .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageDivConstShift_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
