'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageReplaceColor_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageReplaceColor_Inp \- replace a color in an image, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrcdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIcolor1\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIcolor2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageReplaceColor_Inp()
function scans the image for all
pixels with color value equal to
.I color1
and replaces these pixels with
.IR color2 .
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
srcdst[x][y] = color2  if srcdst[x][y] == color1
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srcdst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color1
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Array of color components to be replaced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color2
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Array of color components to replace
.BR color1 .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageReplaceColor (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageReplaceColor_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageReplaceColor_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
