'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoInterpX_Y_XY_U8_U8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoInterpX_Y_XY_U8_U8 \- half-pixel interpolation in both X and Y
directions for replenishment mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_Y_XY_U8_U8\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIoutputX\fR,
     \fBmlib_u8 *\fIoutputY\fR, \fBmlib_u8 *\fIoutputXY\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIimage\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoInterpX_Y_XY_U8_U8()
function performs half-pixel
interpolation in both X and Y directions for the replenishment mode.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outputX
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the output of X-interpolation.
.I outputX
must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outputY
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the output of Y-interpolation.
.I outputY
must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I outputXY
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the output of XY-interpolation.
.I outputXY
must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I image
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the image data.
.I image
must be 8-byte aligned
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the image.
.I stride
must be
a multiple of eight.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Width of the image.
.I width
must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Height of the image.
.I height
must be a multiple of two.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
