'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeight_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeight_S16 \- perform perceptual weighting on input
signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeight_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIsigwgt\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIsignal\fR,  \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIlpc\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlscale\fR,
     \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIr1\fR, \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIr2\fR, \fBvoid *\fIstate\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeight_S16()
function performs perceptual
weighting on input signal.
.sp
.LP
The perceptual weighting filter is defined as following.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
	        A(z*r1)
	W(z) = ---------
	        A(z*r2)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B A(z)
is the inverse filter
.sp
.in +2
.nf
	            M          -i
	A(z) = 1 - SUM a(i) * z
	           i=1
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See G.723.1, G.728, G.729, G.729A, GSM EFR standards.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I sigwgt
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The weighted signal vector, the signal samples are in
.B Q15
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I signal
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The input signal vector, the signal samples are in
.B Q15
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lpc
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The linear prediction coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of the linear prediction coefficients, where
.BR "actual_data = input_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I r1
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The perceptual weighting filter coefficient, the coefficient is in
.B Q15
format, it is treated as
.B 1
if
.B 0
is supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I r2
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The perceptual weighting filter coefficient, the coefficient is in
.B Q15
format, it is treated as
.B 1
if
.B 0
is supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeightInit_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLPCPerceptWeightFree_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
