'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB411 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB411 \- YUV to RGB color conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB411\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIrgb\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIy\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIu\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIv\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIrgb_stride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIy_stride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIuv_stride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB411()
function performs YUV to RGB color
conversion used in digital video compression in the 4:1:1 sequence.
.sp
.LP
The luminance component is stored in Y, the chrominance components are
stored in U and V, respectively. The size of the chrominance image depends
on the chroma format used by the sequence. In this sequence, the chrominance
components are subsampled 4-to-1 in only the horizontal direction in respect
to the luminance component.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rgb
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the destination RGB image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the source Y component.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I u
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the source U component.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I v
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Pointer to the source V component.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Width of the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Height of the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rgb_stride
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y_stride
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the Y component image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I uv_stride
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the U and V component images.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR411 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ABGR444 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ARGB411 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ARGB420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ARGB422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2ARGB444 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorYUV2RGB444 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
