'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageScale2_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageScale2_Inp \- linear scaling, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageScale2_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrcdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIalpha\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIbeta\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageScale2_Inp()
function performs an in-place linear
scaling on the pixels of the source image by multiplying the data by a scale
factor and then adding an offset. Images can have 1, 2, 3, or 4 channels.
.sp
.LP
The following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
srcdst[x][y][i] = srcdst[x][y][i] * alpha[i] + beta[i]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the result of the operation underflows/overflows the minimum/maximum
value supported by the destination image, then it will be clamped to the
minimum/maximum value respectively.
.sp
.LP
The image can be of type
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
\fBMLIB_USHORT\fR or \fBMLIB_INT\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srcdst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alpha
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Scaling factor.
.B alpha[i]
contains the scaling factor for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I beta
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Offset value.
.B beta[i]
contains the offset for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageScale (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale2 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
