'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalLPC2LSP_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLPC2LSP_S16 \- convert linear prediction coefficients to line
spectral pair coefficients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLPC2LSP_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIlsp\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIlpc\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlscale\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIorder\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalLPC2LSP_S16()
function converts linear prediction
coefficients to line spectral pair coefficients.
.sp
.LP
The line spectral pair (LPS) coefficients are defined as the roots of the
following two polynomials:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
	               -(M+1)     -1
	P(z) = A(z) + z      * A(z  )

	               -(M+1)     -1
	Q(z) = A(z) - z      * A(z  )
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B A(z)
is the inverse filter
.sp
.in +2
.nf
	           M          -i
	A(z) = 1- SUM a(i) * z
	          i=1
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that since
.B P(z)
is symmetric and
.B Q(z)
is antisymmetric all
roots of these polynomials are on the unit circle and they alternate each
other.
.B P(z)
has a root at
.B "z = -1"
(\fBw = PI\fR) and \fBQ(z)\fR
has a root at
.BR "z = 1"
.RB ( "w = 0" ).
.sp
.LP
The line spectral frequency (LPF) are the angular frequency of the line
spectral pair (LPS) coefficients.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
	q = cos(w)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B q
is the LPS and w
.B is
the LPF.
.sp
.LP
See
.I "Fundamentals of Speech Recognition"
by Lawrence Rabiner and
Biing-Hwang Juang, Prentice Hall, 1993.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lsp
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The line spectral pair coefficients in
.B Q15
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lpc
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The linear prediction coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I lscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of the linear prediction coefficients, where
.BR "actual_data = input_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I order
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The order of the linear prediction filter.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalLSP2LPC_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
