'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageDivShift1_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageDivShift1_Inp \- division with shifting, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageDivShift1_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrc1dst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc2\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIshift\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageDivShift1_Inp()
function divides the second source
image into the first source image on a pixel-by-pixel basis. It scales the
result by a left shift and writes the result to the destination image on a
pixel-by-pixel basis.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
src1dst[x][y][i] = src1dst[x][y][i] / src2[x][y][i] * 2**shift
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In the case of src2[x][y][i] = 0,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
src1dst[x][y][i] = 0              if src1dst[x][y][i] = 0
src1dst[x][y][i] = DATA_TYPE_MAX  if src1dst[x][y][i] > 0
src1dst[x][y][i] = DATA_TYPE_MIN  if src1dst[x][y][i] < 0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B DATA_TYPE
is
.BR MLIB_U8 ,
.BR MLIB_S16 ,
.BR MLIB_U16 ,
or
.B MLIB_S32
for an image of type
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
or
.BR MLIB_INT ,
respectively.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src1dst
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to first source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src2
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to second source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I shift
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Left shifting factor.
.BR "0 \(<= shift \(<= 31" .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageDivShift (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageDivShift2_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
