'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageColorOrderedDither8x8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageColorOrderedDither8x8 \- true color to indexed color conversion
using ordered dithering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIdmask\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIscale\fR, \fBconst void *\fIcolormap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageColorOrderedDither8x8()
function converts a true color
image to a pseudo color image with the method of ordered dithering. The
source image can be an
.B MLIB_BYTE
or
.B MLIB_SHORT
image with three
or four channels. The destination must be a single-channel \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR
or
.B MLIB_SHORT
image.
.sp
.LP
This function works only with a colorcube, rather than a general lookup
table. The last parameter,
.IR colormap ,
is an internal data structure
(which may include a colorcube) for inverse color mapping. Create it by
calling the
.B mlib_ImageColorTrue2IndexInit()
function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to destination or destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to source or source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dmask
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the 8x8 dither mask, in row major order. The dither mask is
transposed differently for different channels to reduce artifacts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I scale
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Scaling factor for dmask to convert the input integer coefficients into
floating-point coefficients:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
floating-point coefficient = integer coefficient * \e
2**(-scale)
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I colormap
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Internal data structure for inverse color mapping.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageColorErrorDiffusion3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorTrue2Index (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorTrue2IndexFree (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorTrue2IndexInit (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
