'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageConv2x2Index 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageConv2x2Index \- 2x2 convolution on a color indexed image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageConv2x2Index\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIkernel\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIscale\fR, \fBmlib_edge\fR \fIedge\fR,
     \fBconst void *\fIcolormap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageConv2x2Index()
function performs a 2x2 convolution on
the color indexed source image by using the user-supplied kernel.
.sp
.LP
The input and output images must have the same image type and size.
.sp
.LP
For this convolution, the key element of the convolution kernel is located
at
.B "(0, 0)"
of the kernel matrix.
.sp
.LP
This function performs the convolution on color indexed image. The input
image and the output image must be single-channel images. The image type
must be
.B MLIB_BYTE
or
.BR MLIB_SHORT .
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
               m-1-dm n-1-dn
dst[x][y][i] =  SUM    SUM  src[x+p][y+q][i]*k[p][q]*2**(-scale)
               p=-dm  q=-dn
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.BR "m = 2, n = 2, dm = (m - 1)/2 = 0, dn = (n - 1)/2 = 0" .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I kernel
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the convolution kernel, in row major order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I scale
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Scaling factor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I edge
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Type of edge condition. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_EDGE_DST_NO_WRITE
MLIB_EDGE_DST_FILL_ZERO
MLIB_EDGE_DST_COPY_SRC
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I colormap
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Internal data structure for inverse color mapping. This data structure is
generated by the
.B mlib_ImageColorTrue2IndexInit()
function.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageConv2x2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv2x2_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv3x3Index (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv4x4 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv4x4_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv4x4Index (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv5x5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv5x5Index (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConv7x7Index (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvKernelConvert (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvMxN (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvMxN_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvMxNIndex (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvolveMxN (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageConvolveMxN_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv5x5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConv7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
