'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalDTWKVectorInit_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalDTWKVectorInit_S16 \- initialization for K-best paths of vector
data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalDTWKVectorInit_S16\fR(\fBvoid *\fIstate\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 **\fIdref\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlref\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIndata\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIkbest\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdtype\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsref\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdelta\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlocal\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIslope\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalDTWKVectorInit_S16()
function initializes the internal
state structure for dynamic time warping (DTW) for K-best paths of vector
data.
.sp
.LP
The init function performs internal state structure allocation and global
initialization. Per DTW function call initialization is done in DTW
function, so the same internal state structure can be reused for multiple
DTW function calls.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIdref\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The reference data array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIlref\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The length of the reference data array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ndata
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The length of each data vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I kbest
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The number of the best paths evaluated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dtype
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The type of distance metric between data vectors.
.B MLIB_DTW_L1NORM
for
L1 norm of difference (sum of absolute difference). \fBMLIB_DTW_L2NORM\fR
for L2 norm of difference (Euclidean distance).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIsref\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The scaling factor of the reference data array, where \fBactual_data =
input_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I delta
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The delta in the endpoint constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I local
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The type of the local continuity constraints.
.B MLIB_DTW_ITAKURA
for
Itakura type constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I slope
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The type of the slope weighting.
.B MLIB_DTW_NONE
for no slope
weighting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
mlib_SignalDTWKVectorInit_S16(3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalDTWKVector_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalDTWKVectorPath_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalDTWKVectorFree_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
