'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_version 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_version \- return a version string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBchar *\fBmlib_version\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_version()
function returns a string about the version of the
library being used.
.sp
.LP
This function returns a string in the following format:
.sp
.LP
\fIlib_name\fR:\fIversion\fR:\fIbuild_date\fR:\fItarget_isa\fR
.sp
.LP
The
.I lib_name
is
.BR mediaLib .
The
.I version
consists of four
digits. The first two digits of the version are the major version.  The
third digit is the minor version, and the fourth digit is the micro version.
The
.I build_date
is in the
.B yyyymmdd
format.  The
.I target_isa
is the value used for the
.B -xarch=a
flag of the compiler when the
library was built. For example, the following version string corresponds to
a library in mediaLib version 2.1.0, which was built on 11/01/2001 and for
the
.B sparcv8plus+vis
architecture.
.sp
.LP
.B mediaLib:0210:20011101:v8plusa
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes no argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to a string of characters.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
