'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageScale_Fp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageScale_Fp \- linear scaling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageScale_Fp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIalpha\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIbeta\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageScale_Fp()
function performs a floating-point linear
scaling on the pixels of the source image by multiplying the data by a scale
factor, shifting, and then adding an offset.
.sp
.LP
The following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i] * alpha[i] + beta[i]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the result of the operation underflows/overflows the minimum/maximum
value supported by the destination image, then it will be clamped to the
minimum/maximum value respectively.
.sp
.LP
See the following table for available variations of this linear scaling
function.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i)
lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i)
.
Type [*]BYTESHORTUSHORTINTFLOATDOUBLE
_
MLIB_FLOATYYYYYY
_
MLIB_DOUBLEYYYYYY
.TE

.sp
.LP
[*] Each row represents a source data type. Each column represents a
destination data type.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alpha
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Scaling factor.
.B alpha[i]
contains the scaling factor for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I beta
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Offset value.
.B beta[i]
contains the offset for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageScale (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageScale2_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
