'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageColorConvert2 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageColorConvert2 \- color conversion using a 3x3 floating-point
matrix and a three-element offset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageColorConvert2\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIcmat\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIoffset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageColorConvert2()
function takes a 3x3 floating-point
conversion matrix and a three-element offset and converts the source color
image to the destination color image.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination images must be three-channel images.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
|dst[x][y][0]|  |cmat[0] cmat[1] cmat[2]|  |src[x][y][0]|  |offset[0]|
|dst[x][y][1]| =|cmat[3] cmat[4] cmat[5]| *|src[x][y][1]| +|offset[1]|
|dst[x][y][2]|  |cmat[6] cmat[7] cmat[8]|  |src[x][y][2]|  |offset[2]|
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmat
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Conversion matrix in row major order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I offset
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Offset array.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageColorConvert1 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorConvert1_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorConvert2_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2YCC (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2YCC_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorYCC2RGB (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorYCC2RGB_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
