'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorMerge3_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorMerge3_S16 \- color conversion (color channel merge)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorMerge3_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIcolors\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIcolor1\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIcolor2\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIcolor3\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorMerge3_S16()
function performs color channel
merge.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I colors
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to colors multi-component row. colors must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color1
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to first color component row. color1 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color2
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to second color component row. color2 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color3
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to third color component row. color3 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Length of color1, color2 and color3 arrays. Length of colors must be 3*n.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorMerge2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorMerge2_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorMerge3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorMerge4 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorMerge4_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit2_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit3_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit4 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorSplit4_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
