'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorRGBXint_to_ABGRint 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorRGBXint_to_ABGRint \- convert RGBX interleaved to ABGR
interleaved
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorRGBXint_to_ABGRint\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fIABGR\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u32 *\fIRGBX\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIA_array\fR,
     \fBmlib_u8\fR \fIA_const\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIw\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIh\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdlb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIslb\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIalb\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The interleaved RGBX stream and the alpha values are combined into an
interleaved A, B, G, R output stream. Within each 32-bit input pixel, the
component ordering is R (bits 31-24), G (bits 23-16), and B (bits 15-8). Within
each 32-bit output pixel, the component bordering is A (bits 31-24), B (bits
23-16), G (bits 15-8), and R (bits 7-0). The alpha values for this function
work in the following fashion: if A_array is not NULL, the values are taken
from the corresponding locations in the alpha array, otherwise a constant alpha
value, specified by A_const, is store in each output pixel. Each element in the
alpha array is an unsigned byte. w and h define the dimensions of the region of
the buffers to be processed. The linebyte parameters are used to advance the
data pointers for each of the buffers.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ABGR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to output buffer (word-aligned).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I RGBX
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to input buffer (word-aligned).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I A_array
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to array of alpha values (byte-aligned).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I A_const
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Constant alpha value (range = 0..255).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I w
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I h
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Image height in lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dlb
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Linebytes for output buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I slb
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Linebytes for input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I alb
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Linebytes for alpha buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorRGBseq_to_ABGRint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorRGBint_to_ABGRint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorBGRint_to_ABGRint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorRGBXint_to_ARGBint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorXRGBint_to_ABGRint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorXRGBint_to_ARGBint (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
