'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalSineWaveInit_F32 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalSineWaveInit_F32 \- sine wave generation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalSineWaveInit_F32\fR(\fBvoid **\fIstate\fR,
     \fBmlib_f32\fR \fImag\fR, \fBmlib_f32\fR \fIfreq\fR, \fBmlib_f32\fR \fIphase\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalSineWaveInit_F32()
function allocates memory for an
internal state structure and converts the parameters of the wave to an
internal representation.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Internal state structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mag
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Magnitude of sine wave to be generated, in Q15 format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I freq
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Angular frequency of the sine wave to be generated, measured in radians per
sample.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I phase
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Start phase of the sine wave to be generated, measured in radians.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
