'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageColorRGB2Mono 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageColorRGB2Mono \- RGB to monochrome conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageColorRGB2Mono\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIweight\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageColorRGB2Mono()
function performs a conversion from a
red/green/blue to a monochromatic image. The source image must be a
three-channel image. The destination image must be a single-channel image.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][0] = weight[0]*src[x][y][0] +
               weight[1]*src[x][y][1] +
               weight[2]*src[x][y][2]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I weight
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Array of three blending coefficients. It is recommended that these sum to
.BR 1.0 ,
but it is not required.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2CIEMono (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2CIEMono_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageColorRGB2Mono_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
