'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalMelCepstral_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalMelCepstral_S16 \- perform cepstral analysis in mel frequency
scale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalMelCepstral_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIcepst\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcscale\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIsignal\fR, \fBvoid *\fIstate\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalMelCepstral_S16()
function performs cepstral analysis
in mel frequency scale. The user supplied scaling factor will be used and
the output will be saturated if necessary.
.sp
.LP
The first two steps of mel scale cepstral analysis is the same as in
general cepstral anaysis. After the logarithm of the spectrum magnitude is
obtained, it is converted into mel frequency scale before the inverse
Fourier transform.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
           +-----------+        +-----------+
           |  Linear   |        |  Inverse  |
\&.\|.\|. ------>|    to     |------->|  Fourier  |----->
     X'(k) | Mel Scale | X''(m) | Transform | c(n)
           +-----------+        +-----------+
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.B X'(k)
is defined in linear frequency scale and
.B X''(m)
is
defined in mel frequency scale.
.sp
.LP
The mel frequency scale is defined as following.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
freq_mel = melmul * LOG10(1 + freq_linear / meldiv)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
.RB "where " freq_mel " is the frequency in mel scale, " freq_linear " is"
the frequency in linear scale,
.B melmul
is the multiplying factor,
.B muldiv
is the dividing factor.
.sp
.LP
Optionally, a bank of band pass filters in linear frequency scale can be
used below the bank of band pass filters in mel frequency scale, as shown
below in linear frequency scale.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0   f1  f2  f3    fp  fp+1 fp+2  fp+3  fp+q
|---|---|---| .\|.\|. |---|----|-----| .\|.\|. | .\|.\|. -> freq
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.BR "fp = melbgn" ,
.BR "fp+q = melend" ,
.BR "p = nlinear" ,
.BR "q = nmel" ;
the filters number
.B 1
to
.B p
are defined in linear
frequency scale which have equal bandwidth in linear frequency scale; the
filters number
.B p+1
to
.B p+q
are defined in mel frequency scale
which have equal bandwidth in mel frequency scale and increasing bandwidth
in linear frequency scale.
.sp
.LP
See
.I "Digital Signal Processing"
by Alan V. Oppenheim and Ronald W.
Schafer, Prentice Hall, 1974.
.sp
.LP
See
.I "Fundamentals of Speech Recognition"
by Lawrence Rabiner and
Biing-Hwang Juang, Prentice Hall, 1993.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cepst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The cepstral coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cscale
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The scaling factor of cepstral coefficients, where \fBactual_data = output_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I signal
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The input signal vector, the signal samples are in Q15 format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalMelCepstralInit_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalMelCepstral_S16_Adp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalMelCepstralFree_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
