'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5 \- 5x5 median filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_median_mask\fR \fImmask\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcmask\fR,
     \fBmlib_edge\fR \fIedge\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5()
function performs median filtering on
an image. Each pixel of the destination image is the pixel with rank middle
in the filter window.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mmask
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Shape of the mask to be used for median filtering. It can be one of the
following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_MEDIAN_MASK_RECT
MLIB_MEDIAN_MASK_PLUS
MLIB_MEDIAN_MASK_X
MLIB_MEDIAN_MASK_RECT_SEPARABLE
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmask
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Channel mask to indicate the channels to be filtered. Each bit of which
represents a channel in the image. The channels corresponded to 1 bits are
those to be processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I edge
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Type of edge condition. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_EDGE_DST_NO_WRITE
MLIB_EDGE_DST_FILL_ZERO
MLIB_EDGE_DST_COPY_SRC
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter5x5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMaxFilter7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter3x3_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter5x5_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilter7x7_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilterMxN (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilterMxN_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMedianFilterMxN_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter5x5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageMinFilter7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter3x3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter3x3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter3x3_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter5x5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter5x5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter5x5_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter7x7 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter7x7_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilter7x7_US (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilterMxN (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilterMxN_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageRankFilterMxN_US (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
