'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageClearEdge 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageClearEdge \- sets edges of an image to a specific color
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageClearEdge\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdx\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdy\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIcolor\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageClearEdge()
function sets edges of an image to a
specific color. This function can be used in conjunction with the convolve
and other spatial functions to fill in the pixel values along the edges. The
data type of the image can be
.BR MLIB_BIT ,
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
or
.BR MLIB_INT .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I img
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to an image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dx
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Number of columns on the left and right edges of the image to be cleared.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dy
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Number of rows at the top and bottom edges of the image to be cleared.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I color
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Array of color values by channel.
.B color[i]
contains the value for
channel
.BR i .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageClear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageClear_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageClearEdge_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
