'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageThresh5 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageThresh5 \- image thresholding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageThresh5\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIthigh\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fItlow\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIgray\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageThresh5()
function compares each pixel in the source
image to two threshold values,
.I tlow
and
.IR thigh .
If the pixel is
in between the lower threshold value,
.IR tlow ,
and the higher threshold
value,
.IR thigh ,
(inclusive on both sides), then the destination pixel is
set to the value
.IR gray .
Otherwise, the destination pixel is set to the
value of the source pixel.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i]  if src[x][y][i] < tlow[i]
dst[x][y][i] = gray[i]       if tlow[i] \(<= src[x][y][i] \(<= thigh[i]
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i]  if src[x][y][i] > thigh[i]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I thigh
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
High threshold value.
.B thigh[i]
holds the high threshold for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tlow
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Low threshold value.
.B tlow[i]
holds the low threshold for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I gray
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Output grayscale level.
.B gray[i]
holds the output grayscale level for
channel
.BR i .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
