'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageCreateStruct 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageCreateStruct \- image structure creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_image *\fBmlib_ImageCreateStruct\fR(\fBmlib_type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIchannels\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR, \fBconst void *\fIdatbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageCreateStruct()
function creates a mediaLib image data
structure with parameters supplied by the user.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Image data type. It can be
.BR MLIB_BIT ,
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
.BR MLIB_INT ,
.BR MLIB_FLOAT ,
or
.BR MLIB_DOUBLE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I channels
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Number of channels in the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Width of image in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Height of image in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Stride of each row of the data space in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I datbuf
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to the image data buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the
.B mlib_image
data structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageCreate (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreateSubimage (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSetStruct (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageResetStruct (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageDelete (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSetFormat (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSetPaddings (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
