'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalQuant2_S16S_F32S 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalQuant2_S16S_F32S \- float to 16-bit quantization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalQuant2_S16S_F32S\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_f32 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBconst mlib_f32\fR \fIthresh\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlength\fR,
     \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalQuant2_S16S_F32S()
function quantizes a signal array
by using the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
X = x(n)                  n = 0, 1, .\|.\|.
Z = z(n)                  n = 0, 1, .\|.\|.
  = offset                for x(n) < t(0)
  = offset + k            for t(k) \(<= x(n) < t(k+1)
  = offset + length - 1   for x(n) \(>= t(length - 1)
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Output signal array in two-channel interleaved stereo format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Input signal array in two-channel interleaved stereo format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I thresh
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Array of thresholds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I length
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Length of the array of thresholds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I offset
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Offset for thresholds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of samples in the input signal array.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
