'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalUpSampleFIRInit_F32S_F32S 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalUpSampleFIRInit_F32S_F32S \- upsampling with filtering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalUpSampleFIRInit_F32S_F32S\fR(\fBvoid **\fIstate\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_f32 *\fIflt\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fItap\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfactor\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIphase\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalUpSampleFIRInit_F32S_F32S()
function allocates memory
for the internal state structure and converts the parameters into an
internal representation for upsampling immediately followed by FIR
filtering.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Internal state structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIflt\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Filter coefficientarray in two-channel stereo format. src[2*i] contains
channel 0, and src[2*i+1] contains channel 1 array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tap
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Taps of the filter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIfactor\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Factor by which to upsample.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I phase
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Parameter that determines the relative position of an input value, within
the output signal.
.BR "0 \(<= phase < factor" .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
