'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageZoomTranslateTableBlend 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageZoomTranslateTableBlend \- image scaling using interpolation
table, combined with alpha blending
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageZoomTranslateTableBlend\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIzoomx\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIzoomy\fR,
     \fBmlib_d64\fR \fItx\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIty\fR, \fBconst void *\fItable\fR, \fBmlib_edge\fR \fIedge\fR,
     \fBmlib_blend\fR \fIblend\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcmask\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageZoomTranslateTableBlend()
function will enlarge or
minify the source image by the X and Y zoom factors, with translation, and
blend it with the destination image.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation for coordinate mapping:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
xd = zoomx*xs + tx
yd = zoomy*ys + ty
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where a point with coordinates
.B "(xs, ys)"
in the source image is mapped
to a point with coordinates
.B "(xd, yd)"
in the destination image.
.sp
.LP
The center of the upper-left corner pixel of an image is located at
.BR "(0.5, 0.5)" .
.sp
.LP
It is assumed that the overall alpha for controlling the blending between
the source image and the destination image has been pre-multiplied to the
interpolation table for better performance.
.sp
.LP
The alpha blending is closely combined with the interpolation to achieve
better performance.  Part of alpha blending has to be performed before or
together with the interpolation if the source image has an alpha channel. In
that case, the color components of each neighboring source pixel which
participates in the interpolation (\fBsrc_r\fR and etc.) have to be
pre-multiplied by the alpha component of the same source pixel
.RB ( src_a ).
After the interpolation, the interpolated alpha
.RB ( interp_a ,
which has been multiplied by the overall alpha because of
the pre-multiplied interpolation table) and the destination pixel's original
alpha
.RB ( dst_a ,
if any) are used to blend the interpolated source pixel
(with components
.B interp_r
and etc.) with the destination pixel (with
components
.B dst_r
and etc.).
.sp
.LP
The
.B MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC
blending is similar to the
.B SRC
rule of
the Porter-Duff rules for image compositing. It is defined by
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Cd = Cs
Ad = As
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
in general, and by the following formula for this function:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if (interp_a != 0.0) {
	if (dst_has_alpha) {
		dst_r = interp_r/interp_a;
		dst_g = interp_g/interp_a;
		dst_b = interp_b/interp_a;
		dst_a = interp_a;
	} else {
		dst_r = interp_r;
		dst_g = interp_g;
		dst_b = interp_b;
		dst_a = 1.0; // implied
	}
} else {
	dst_r = 0;
	dst_g = 0;
	dst_b = 0;
	dst_a = 0;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC_OVER
or
.BR MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC_OVER2
blending is similar to the
.B SRC_OVER
rule of the Porter-Duff rules for
image compositing.  It is defined by
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Cd = Cs + Cd*(1 - As)
Ad = As + Ad*(1 - As)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
in general, and by the following formula for this function:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
w = interp_a + (1 - interp_a)*dst_a;
if (w != 0.0) {
	dst_r = (interp_r + (1 - interp_a)*dst_a*dst_r)/w;
	dst_g = (interp_g + (1 - interp_a)*dst_a*dst_g)/w;
	dst_b = (interp_b + (1 - interp_a)*dst_a*dst_b)/w;
	dst_a = w;
} else if (MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC_OVER) {
	dst_r = 0;
	dst_g = 0;
	dst_b = 0;
	dst_a = 0;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.BR src_a ,
.B interp_a
and
.B dst_a
are assumed to be in the
range of
.BR "[0.0, 1.0]" .
.sp
.LP
For an image with 4 channels, the first or the fourth channel is considered
the alpha channel if
.I cmask
equals 8 or 1, respectively. An image with
3 channels is considered to have no alpha channel, which is equivalent to
having an alpha channel filled with all
.BR 1.0 ,
or
.B 0xff
in case of
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
if the general formulas for blending shown above are
used.
.sp
.LP
Both
.I src
and
.I dst
must be of type
.BR MLIB_BYTE .
They can have
either 3 or 4 channels.
.sp
.LP
The
.I src
image cannot have width or height larger than 32767.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to first source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I zoomx
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
X zoom factor.
.BR "zoomx > 0.0" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I zoomy
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Y zoom factor.
.BR "zoomy > 0.0" .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tx
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
X translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ty
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Y translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I table
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to interpolation table structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I edge
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Type of edge condition. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_EDGE_DST_NO_WRITE
MLIB_EDGE_DST_FILL_ZERO
MLIB_EDGE_OP_NEAREST
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND_INDEF
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_PADDED
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I blend
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Type of alpha blending. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC
MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC_OVER
MLIB_BLEND_GTK_SRC_OVER2
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cmask
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Channel mask to indicate the alpha channel.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageZoomBlend (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageZoomTranslateBlend (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageInterpTableCreate (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
