'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageInvert_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageInvert_Inp \- invert in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageInvert_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrcdst\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageInvert_Inp()
function performs the in-place inversion
of an image such that white becomes black, light gray becomes dark gray, and
so on.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
srcdst[x][y][i] = (Gwhite + Gblack) - srcdst[x][y][i]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The values of Gwhite and Gblack for different types of images are:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i)
lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i)
.
Image TypeGwhiteGblackGwhite + Gblack
_
MLIB_BYTE2550255 (0xFF)
MLIB_SHORT32767-32768-1 (0xFFFF)
_
MLIB_USHORT65535065535 (0xFFFF)
_
MLIB_INT2147483647-2147483648-1 (0xFFFFFFFF)
.TE

.sp
.LP
Given that integer data are in the two's complement representation,
\fBmlib_ImageInvert()\fR is the same as
.BR mlib_ImageNot() ,
while
\fBmlib_ImageInvert_Inp()\fR is the same as
.BR mlib_ImageNot_Inp() .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srcdst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to source and destination image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageInvert (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageInvert_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageInvert_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
