'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB420_Nearest 3MLIB "23 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB420_Nearest \- JFIF YCbCr to RGB color
conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB420_Nearest\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIrgb0\fR,
     \fBmlib_u8 *\fIrgb1\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIy0\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIy1\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIcb\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIcr\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB420_Nearest()
function performs color
space conversion from YCbCr to RGB together with sampling rate conversion
when used in the JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rgb0
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to upper destination RGB multi-component row. rgb0 must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rgb1
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to lower destination RGB multi-component row. rgb1 must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y0
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to upper destination Y component row. y0 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y1
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to lower destination Y component row. y1 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cb
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to source Cb component row. cb must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to source Cr component row. cr must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Length of Y component row.
.B n
must be even. The length of Cb and Cr
component rows must be
.BR n/2 .
The length of the RGB multi-component row
must be
.BR 3*n .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorJFIFYCC2RGB422_Nearest (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
