'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_realloc 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_realloc \- reallocate a block of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid *\fBmlib_realloc\fR(\fBvoid *\fIptr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_realloc()
function changes the size of the block pointed to
by
.I ptr
to
.I size
bytes and returns a pointer to the (possibly
moved) block.
.sp
.LP
This function is a wrapper of the standard C function
.BR realloc() .
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I size
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
New size of the block in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ptr
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to a block.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the reallocated block if successful.
Otherwise it returns a null pointer.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_free\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_malloc\fR(3MLIB), \fBmalloc\fR(3C),
.BR attributes (5)
