'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageLookUp2 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageLookUp2 \- table lookup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageLookUp2\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst void **\fItable\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fIoffsets\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIchannels\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageLookUp2()
function maps the source image to the
destination image by using the user-specified lookup table and an offset.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination images must have the same width and height.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination images can have different data types. See the
following table for available variations of the table lookup function on
image types:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i)
lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i)
.
Type [*]BYTESHORTUSHORTINTFLOATDOUBLE
_
MLIB_BITY
MLIB_BYTEYYYYYY
_
MLIB_SHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_USHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_INTYYYYYY
.TE

.sp
.LP
[*] Each row represents a source data type. Each column represents a
destination data type.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination images also can have a different number of
channels. The source image can be a single-channel image or can have the
same number of channels as the destination image. The lookup table can have
one channel or have the same channels as the destination image. See the
following table for possible variations on the number of channels in the
images and the lookup table:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i)
cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i)
.
# of channels in# of channels in# of channels in
the input imagethe lookup tablethe output image
_
1nn
n1n
nnn
.TE

.sp
.LP
where, n = 1, 2, 3, 4.
.sp
.LP
Each of the following equations is used in the corresponding case shown in
the table above.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = table[i][src[x][y][0] - offsets[i]]
dst[x][y][i] = table[0][src[x][y][i] - offsets[0]]
dst[x][y][i] = table[i][src[x][y][i] - offsets[i]]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I table
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Pointer to lookup table. The data type of the lookup table is the same as
that of the destination image.. The format of the lookup table is:
.sp
\fBtable[channel][index]\fR
.sp
The entries are indexed from 0 to 1, 2, .\|.\|., and so on. It is the user's
responsibility to provide a lookup table that has enough entries to cover
all possible values of the pixel components deducted by the offset in each
channel of the source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIoffsets\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
 Offset values subtracted from the src pixel before table lookup.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I channels
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
 Number of channels in the lookup table. If the number of channels equals 1, then the same table is applied to all channels. Otherwise, the number of channels must be no less than the number of channels in the destination image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageLookUp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageLookUp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageLookUpMask (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
