'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear \- adaptive differential pulse code modulation
(ADPCM)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIpcm\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIadpcm\fR, \fBvoid *\fIstate\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear()
function performs adaptive
differential pulse code modulation (ADPCM) in compliance with the ITU
(former CCITT) G.721, G.723, and G.726 specifications. It converts data
fromG.721 or G.726 32kbps 4-bit ADPCM to 16-bit linear PCM format.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Linear PCM sample array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I adpcm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
ADPCM code array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Internal structure of the codec.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Number of samples in the source array.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM2Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM3Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM5Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCMFree (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCMInit (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM2Bits (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM4Bits (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
