'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageFourierTransform 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageFourierTransform \- Fourier transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageFourierTransform\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_fourier_mode\fR \fImode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageFourierTransform()
function performs a two-dimensional
Fourier transformation. The source and destination images must be the same
type and the same size. The data type of the images can be
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
.BR MLIB_INT ,
.BR MLIB_FLOAT ,
or
.BR MLIB_DOUBLE .
The height and width of the images must be some positive
power of 2 (but they do not have to be equal).
.sp
.LP
They can have 1 or 2 channels. If the source image has just one channel the
imaginary parts are assumed to be zero. If the destination image has just
one channel, then it is assumed that the imaginary parts of the output can
be discarded. But in case both source and destination images are one-channel
images, then
.B MLIB_FAILURE
is returned.
.sp
.LP
The predefined modes used in the image Fourier transform function are as
follows:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
ModeDescription
_
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_NONE\fRForward DFT without scaling
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_MXN\fRForward DFT with scaling of \fB1/(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_SQRT\fRForward DFT with scaling of \fB1/sqrt(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_NONE\fRInverse DFT without scaling
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_MXN\fRInverse DFT with scaling of \fB1/(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_SQRT\fRInverse DFT with scaling of \fB1/sqrt(M*N)\fR
.TE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mode
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Mode of the transform.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
