'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420 3MLIB "23 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420 \- ABGR to JFIF YCbCr color conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIy0\fR,
     \fBmlib_u8 *\fIy1\fR, \fBmlib_u8 *\fIcb\fR, \fBmlib_u8 *\fIcr\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIabgr0\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fIabgr1\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420()
function performs color space
conversion from ABGR to YCbCr together with sampling rate conversion when
used in the JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to upper destination Y component row. y0 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I y1
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to lower destination Y component row. y1 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cb
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination Cb component row. cb must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cr
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to destination Cr component row. cr must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I abgr0
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to upper source ABGR multi-component row. abgr0 must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I abgr1
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Pointer to lower source ABGR multi-component row. abgr1 must be 8-byte
aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Length of Y component row. n must be even. The length of Cb and Cr
component rows must be n/2. The length of the ABGR multi-component row must
be 4*n.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorARGB2JFIFYCC420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorARGB2JFIFYCC422 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorRGB2JFIFYCC420 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorRGB2JFIFYCC422 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
