'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp \- image thresholding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fIsrcdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIthigh\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fItlow\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIghigh\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fIglow\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp()
function compares each pixel in the
source image to two threshold values,
.I tlow
and
.IR thigh .
If the
pixel is less than the lower threshold value,
.IR tlow ,
then the
destination pixel is set to the lower output level,
.IR glow .
If the pixel
is greater than the higher threshold value,
.IR thigh ,
then the
destination pixel is set to the higher output level,
.IR ghigh .
Otherwise,
the destination pixel is set to the value of the source pixel.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
srcdst[x][y][i] = glow[i]   if srcdst[x][y][i] < tlow[i]
srcdst[x][y][i] = ghigh[i]  if srcdst[x][y][i] > thigh[i]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I srcdst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I thigh
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
High threshold value.
.B thigh[i]
holds the high threshold for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tlow
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Low threshold value.
.B tlow[i]
holds the low threshold for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ghigh
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
High output grayscale level.
.B ghigh[i]
holds the high output grayscale
level for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I glow
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Low output grayscale level.
.B glow[i]
holds the low output grayscale
level for channel
.BR i .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh1_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh2_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh3_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh4_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Fp_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageThresh5_Inp (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
