'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA \- dequantization and inverse
Discrete Cosine Transform (IDCT)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA\fR(
     \fBmlib_u8 *\fIblock\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16\fR \fIcoeffs[64]\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64\fR \fIdqtable[64]\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA()
function dequantizes the
quantized DCT coefficients and then computes the inverse DCT. It's a
combination of
.B mlib_VideoDeQuantize_S16()
and
.B mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA()
for better performance.
.sp
.LP
This function requires no special address alignment.
.sp
.LP
This function can be used in JPEG with 8-bit precision, or in MPEG for the
intra mode.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I block
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to an 8x8 block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I coeffs
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to the input quantized DCT coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dqtable
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to the dequantization table generated by
.BR mlib_VideoDeQuantizeInit_S16() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I stride
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Stride in bytes between adjacent rows in the block.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12_NA (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDeQuantizeIDCT8x8_U8_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoDeQuantizeInit_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
