'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1_Mismatch 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1_Mismatch \- inverse Discrete Cosine
Transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1_Mismatch\fR(
     \fBmlib_s16\fR \fIblock[64]\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16\fR \fIcoeffs[64]\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1_Mismatch()
function computes the
inverse IDCT in the inter mode.
.sp
.LP
This function is similar to
.B mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1()
which
should only be used when
.B coeffs[u][v]
.RB ( "u,v = 0.\|.\|.7" )
are
non-zero only for
.B u
and
.B v
less then
.BR 4 .
However, this
function also allows element
.B coeffs[7][7]
to be non-zero. The primary
benefit of this modification is that it can handle situations where
.B coeffs[7][7]
has been made non-zero by MPEG mismatch-control, allowing
a simplified version of the IDCT to be undertaken for a much larger number
of situations.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I block
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to an 8x8 motion-compensated block which is the difference between
the reference block and current block.
.B block
must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I coeffs
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Pointer to the input DCT coefficients.
.B coeffs
must be 8-byte aligned.
.B coeffs
should be in S12 range or it should be obtained from the
corresponding forward DCT.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
