'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_ImageCreate 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageCreate \- image creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_image *\fBmlib_ImageCreate\fR(\fBmlib_type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIchannels\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_ImageCreate()
function creates a mediaLib image data
structure and allocates memory space for image data. The data type of the
image can be
.BR MLIB_BIT ,
.BR MLIB_BYTE ,
.BR MLIB_SHORT ,
.BR MLIB_USHORT ,
.BR MLIB_INT ,
.BR MLIB_FLOAT ,
or
.BR MLIB_DOUBLE .
.sp
.LP
To obtain the best performance, it is recommended that you use this
function to create a mediaLib image whenever possible, as this guarantees
alignment.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I type
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Image data type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I channels
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Number of channels in the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I width
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Width of image in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I height
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Height of image in pixels.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the
.B mlib_image
data structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_ImageCreateStruct (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageCreateSubimage (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageDelete (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_ImageSetPaddings (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
