'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalIIR_P4_S16_S16_Sat 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalIIR_P4_S16_S16_Sat, mlib_SignalIIR_P4_S16S_S16S_Sat,
mlib_SignalIIR_P4_F32_F32, mlib_SignalIIR_P4_F32S_F32S \- parallel Infinite
Impulse Response (IIR) filtering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalIIR_P4_S16_S16_Sat\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBvoid *\fIfilter\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalIIR_P4_S16S_S16S_Sat\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBvoid *\fIfilter\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalIIR_P4_F32_F32\fR(\fBmlib_f32 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_f32 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBvoid *\fIfilter\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalIIR_P4_F32S_F32S\fR(\fBmlib_f32 *\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_f32 *\fIsrc\fR, \fBvoid *\fIfilter\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions applies a fourth order parallel IIR filter to one
signal packet and updates the filter state.
.sp
Printed copy or docs.sun.com displays an equation that represents the
fourth order parallel IIR filtering.
.sp
.LP
The fourth order parallel IIR filter is represented by the following
figure:
.sp
Printed copy or docs.sun.com displays a figure that represents the fourth
order parallel IIR filter.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dst
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Destination signal array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I src
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Source signal array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I filter
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Internal filter structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Number of signal samples.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise
it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalIIR_Biquad_S16_S16_Sat (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalIIRFree_Biquad_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalIIRFree_P4_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalIIRInit_Biquad_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalIIRInit_P4_S16_S16 (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
