'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_VideoColorRGBAint_to_ABGRint 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorRGBAint_to_ABGRint \- convert RGBA interleaved to ABGR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorRGBAint_to_ABGRint\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fIABGR\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u32 *\fIRGBA\fR,\fBmlib_s32\fR \fIw\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIh\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdlb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIslb\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The RGBA pixel stream is broken apart and recombined into an ABGR pixel stream.
All pixel components are 8-bit unsigned integers. The buffers have dimensions
.I w
and
.IR h .
Within each 32-bit input word, the component ordering is R
(bits 31-24), G (bits 23-16), B (bits 15-8), and A (bits 7-0). Within each
32-bit output word, the component ordering is A (bits 31-24), B (bits 23-16), G
(bits 15-8), and R (bits 7-0).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ABGR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to output buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I RGBA
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Pointer to input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I w
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I h
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Image height in lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I dlb
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Linebytes for output buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I slb
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt
Linebytes for input buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_VideoColorABGRint_to_ARGBint (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_VideoColorBGRAint_to_ABGRint (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
