'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits \- adaptive differential pulse code modulation
(ADPCM)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fIadpcm\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fIpcm\fR, \fBvoid *\fIstate\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits()
function performs adaptive
differential pulse code modulation (ADPCM) in compliance with the ITU
(former CCITT) G.721, G.723, and G.726 specifications. It converts data from
16-bit linear PCM to G.723 or G.726 24kbps 3-bit ADPCM format.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I adpcm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
ADPCM code array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I pcm
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Linear PCM sample array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I state
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Internal structure of the codec.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I n
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
Number of samples in the source array.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns
.B MLIB_SUCCESS
if successful. Otherwise it returns
.BR MLIB_FAILURE .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM2Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM3Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCM5Bits2Linear (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCMFree (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalADPCMInit (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM2Bits (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM4Bits (3MLIB),
.BR mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits (3MLIB),
.BR attributes (5)
