'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH doconfig 3NSL "30 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
doconfig \- execute a configuration script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
# include <sac.h>



\fBint\fR \fBdoconfig\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBchar *\fIscript\fR, \fBlong\fR \fIrflag\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B doconfig()
is a Service Access Facility library function that
interprets the configuration scripts contained in the files
\fB</etc/saf/\fIpmtag\fB/_config>\fR,
.BR </etc/saf/_sysconfig> ,
and
\fB</etc/saf/\fIpmtag\fR/\fIsvctag>\fR, where  \fIpmtag\fR specifies the
tag associated with the port monitor, and
.I svctag
specifies the service
tag associated with a given service.   See
.BR pmadm (1M)
and
.BR sacadm (1M).
.sp
.LP
.B script
is the name of the configuration script;
.I fildes
is a
file descriptor that designates the stream to which stream manipulation
operations are to be applied;
.I rflag
is a bitmask that indicates the
mode in which
.B script
is to be interpreted. If
.I rflag
is zero, all
commands in the configuration script are eligible to be interpreted. If
.I rflag
has the
.B NOASSIGN
bit set, the
.B assign
command is
considered illegal and will generate an error return. If
.I rflag
has the
.B NORUN
bit set, the
.B run
and
.B runwait
commands are considered
illegal and will generate error returns.
.sp
.LP
The configuration language in which
.B script
is written consists of a
sequence of commands, each of which is interpreted separately. The following
reserved keywords are defined:
.BR assign ,
.BR push ,
.BR pop ,
.BR runwait ,
and
.BR run .
The comment character is
.BR # ;
when a
.B #
occurs on a line, everything from that point to the end of the line
is ignored. Blank lines are not significant. No line in a command script may
exceed 1024 characters.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBassign\fR \fIvariable\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used to define environment variables.
.I variable
is the name of the
environment variable and
.I value
is the value to be assigned to it. The
value assigned must be a string constant; no form of parameter substitution
is available.
.I value
may be quoted. The quoting rules are those used by
the shell for defining environment variables.
.B assign
will fail if
space cannot be allocated for the new variable or if any part of the
specification is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B push
\fImodule1\fR[, \fImodule2\fR, \fImodule3\fR, . . .]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used to push STREAMS modules onto the stream designated by
.IR fildes .
.I module1
is the name of the first module to be pushed,
.I module2
is
the name of the second module to be pushed, etc. The command will fail if
any of the named modules cannot be pushed. If a module cannot be pushed, the
subsequent modules on the same command line will be ignored and modules that
have already been pushed will be popped.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBpop\fR [\fImodule\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used to pop STREAMS modules off the designated stream. If
.B pop
is
invoked with no arguments, the top module on the  stream is popped. If an
argument is given, modules will be popped one at a time until the named
module is at the top of the stream. If the named module is not on the
designated stream, the stream is left as it was and the command fails. If
.I module
is the special keyword ALL, then all modules on the stream will
be popped. Note that only modules above the topmost driver are affected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B runwait command
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B runwait
command runs a command and waits for it to complete.
.B command
is the pathname of the command to be run. The command is run
with
.B "/usr/bin/sh -c"
prepended to it; shell scripts may thus be
executed from configuration scripts. The
.B runwait
command will fail if
.B command
cannot be found or cannot be executed, or if \fBcommand\fR
exits with a non-zero status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B run command
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.B run
command is identical to
.B runwait
except that it does not
wait for
.B command
to complete.
.B command
is the pathname of the
command to be run.
.B run
will not fail unless it is unable to create a
child process to execute the command.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Although they are syntactically indistinguishable, some of the commands
available to
.B run
and
.B runwait
are interpreter built-in commands.
Interpreter built-ins are used when it is necessary to alter the state of a
process within the context of that process. The
.B doconfig()
interpreter
built-in commands are similar to the shell special commands and, like these,
they do not spawn another process for execution. See
.BR sh (1).
The
built-in commands are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcd
ulimit
umask\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B doconfig()
returns
.B 0
if the script was interpreted
successfully. If a command in the script fails, the interpretation of the
script ceases at that point and a positive number is returned; this number
indicates which line in the script failed. If a system error occurs, a value
of \fB\(mi1\fR is returned. When a script fails, the process whose
environment was being established should
.I not
be started.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sh (1),
.BR pmadm (1M),
.BR sacadm (1M),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This interface is unsafe in multithreaded applications.  Unsafe interfaces
should be called only from the main thread.
