'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getipsecprotobyname 3NSL "13 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getipsecprotobyname, getipsecprotobynum \- query IPsec protocols entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc \fB-flag \&.\|.\|.\fR  \fIfile \fR\&.\|.\|.\fB-l\fRnsl [\fB -library \&.\|.\|. \fR]
#include <netdb.h>



\fBint\fR \fBgetipsecprotobyname\fR(\fBconst char *\fIproto_name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBgetipsecprotobynum\fR(\fBint\fR \fIproto_num\fRp
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the
.B getipsecprotobyname()
and
.BR getipsecprotobynum()
functions to obtain the IPsec algorithm mappings that are defined by
.BR ipsecalgs (1M).
You can also use the
.B getipsecprotobyname()
and
\fBgetipsecprotobynum()\fR functions in conjunction with
.BR getipsecalgbyname (3NSL)
and
.BR getipsecalgbynum "(3NSL) to obtain"
information about the supported IPsec algorithms. The IPsec algorithms and
associated protocol name spaces are defined by
.IR "RFC 2407" .
.sp
.LP
\fBgetipsecprotobyname()\fR takes as an argument the name of an IPsec
protocol and returns its assigned protocol number. The character string
returned by the
.B getipsecprotobyname()
function must be freed by the
called when it is no longer needed.
.sp
.LP
\fBgetipsecprotobynum()\fR takes as an argument a protocol number and
returns the corresponding protocol name.
.sp
.LP
The following protocol numbers are pre-defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPSEC_PROTO_ESP
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Defines the encryption algorithms (transforms) that can be used by IPsec to
provide data confidentiality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B IPSEC_PROTO_AH
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt
Defines the authentication algorithms (transforms) that can be used by
IPsec to provide authentication.
.RE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I proto_name
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
A pointer to the name of an IPsec protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I proto_num
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
A pointer to a protocol number. conditions.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.B getipsecprotobyname()
function returns a protocol number upon
success, or
.B -1
if the protocol specified does not exist.
.sp
.LP
 The
.B getipsecprotobynum()
function returns a protocol name upon success, or the
.I NULL
value if the protocol number specified does not exist.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32 bit)
SUNWcslx (64 bit)
_
MT LevelMT Safe
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR ipsecalgs (1M),
.BR getipsecalgbyname (3NSL),
.BR getipsecalgbyname (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
Piper, D. \fIRFC 2407, The Internet IP Security Domain of Interpretation
for ISAKMP\fR. Network Working Group. November, 1998.
