'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH getpublickey 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getpublickey, getsecretkey, publickey \- retrieve public or secret key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpc.h>
#include <rpc/key_prot.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetpublickey\fR(\fBconst char\fR \fInetname[MAXNETNAMELEN]\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fIpublickey[HEXKEYBYTES+1]\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetsecretkey\fR(\fBconst char\fR \fInetname[MAXNETNAMELEN]\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fIsecretkey[HEXKEYBYTES+1]\fR,\fBconst char *\fIpasswd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B getpublickey()
and
.B getsecretkey()
functions get public and
secret keys for
.IR netname .
The key may come from one of the following
sources:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/etc/publickey\fR file. See
.BR publickey (4).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBNIS\fR map ``publickey.byname'' or the \fBNIS+\fR table
``cred.org_dir''. The sources and their lookup order are specified in the
\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4).
.RE
.sp
.LP
\fBgetsecretkey()\fR has an extra argument,
.BR passwd ,
which is used to
decrypt the encrypted secret key stored in the database.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Both routines return
.B 1
if they are successful in finding the key.
Otherwise, the routines return
.BR 0 .
The keys are returned as
null-terminated, hexadecimal strings. If the password supplied to
\fBgetsecretkey()\fR fails to decrypt the secret key, the routine will
return 1 but the
.I secretkey
[0] will be set to
.IR NULL .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL),
.BR nsswitch.conf (4),
.BR publickey (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
If
.B getpublickey()
gets the public key from any source other than
NIS+, all authenticated NIS+ operations may fail. To ensure that this does
not happen, edit the
.BR nsswitch.conf (4)
file to make sure that the
public key is obtained from NIS+.
.SS "NOTES"
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
