'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nis_local_names 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nis_local_names, nis_local_directory, nis_local_host, nis_local_group,
nis_local_principal \- NIS+ local names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <rpcsvc/nis.h>



\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_local_directory\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_local_host\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_local_group\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_local_principal\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions return several default NIS+ names associated with the
current process.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_local_directory()
returns the name of the NIS+ domain for this
machine. This is currently the same as the Secure RPC domain returned by the
.BR sysinfo (2)
system call.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_local_host()
returns the  NIS+ name of the current machine. This
is the fully qualified name for the host and is either the value returned by
the \fBgethostname\fR(3C) function or, if the host name is only partially
qualified, the concatenation of that value and the name of the NIS+
directory. Note that if a machine's name and address cannot be found in the
local NIS+ directory, its hostname must be fully qualified.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_local_group()
returns the name of the current NIS+ group name.
This is currently set by setting the environment variable
.B NIS_GROUP
to
the groupname.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_local_principal()
returns the  NIS+ principal name for the user
associated with the effective UID of the calling process. This function maps
the effective uid into a principal name by looking for a
.B LOCAL
type
credential in the table named
.I cred.org_dir
in the default domain. See
.BR nisaddcred (1M).
.sp
.LP
The result returned by these routines is a pointer to a data structure with
the NIS+ library, and should be considered a "read-only" result and should
not be modified.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_GROUP
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
This variable contains the name of the local NIS+ group. If the name is not
fully qualified, the value returned by
.B nis_local_directory()
will be
concatenated to it.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nisdefaults (1),
.BR nisaddcred (1M),
.BR sysinfo (2),
.BR gethostname (3C),
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
