'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nis_ping 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nis_ping, nis_checkpoint \- NIS+ log administration functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <rpcsvc/nis.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_ping\fR(\fBnis_name\fR \fIdirname\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIutime\fR, \fBnis_object *\fIdirobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_result *\fBnis_checkpoint\fR(\fBnis_name\fR \fIdirname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B nis_ping()
is called by the master server for a directory when a
.RB "change has occurred within that directory. The parameter" " dirname"
identifies the directory with the change. If the parameter
.I dirobj
is
.IR NULL ,
this function looks up the directory object for
.BR dirname
and uses the list of replicas it contains. The parameter
.I utime
contains the timestamp of the last change made to the directory. This
timestamp is used by the replicas when retrieving updates made to the
directory.
.sp
.LP
The effect of calling
.B nis_ping()
is to schedule an update on the
replica. A short time after a ping is received, typically about two minutes,
the replica compares the last update time for its databases to the timestamp
sent by the ping. If the ping timestamp is later, the replica establishes a
connection with the master  server and request all changes from the log that
occurred after the last update that it had recorded in its local log.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_checkpoint()
is used to force the service to checkpoint
information that has been entered in the log but has not been checkpointed
to disk. When called, this function checkpoints the database for each table
in the directory, the database containing the directory and the transaction
log. Care should be used in calling this function since directories that
have seen a lot of changes may take several minutes to checkpoint. During
the checkpointing process, the service will be unavailable for updates for
all directories  that are served by this machine as master.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_checkpoint()
returns a pointer to a
.I nis_result
structure.
See
.BR nis_tables (3NSL).
This structure should be freed with
.BR nis_freeresult() .
See
.BR nis_names (3NSL).
The only items of
interest in the returned result are the status value and the statistics.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nislog (1M),
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_tables (3NSL),
.BR nisfiles (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
