'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nis_subr 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nis_subr, nis_leaf_of, nis_name_of, nis_domain_of, nis_getnames,
nis_freenames, nis_dir_cmp, nis_clone_object, nis_destroy_object,
nis_print_object \- NIS+ subroutines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <rpcsvc/nis.h>



\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_leaf_of\fR(\fBconst nis_name\fR \fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_name_of\fR(\fBconst nis_name\fR \fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name\fR \fBnis_domain_of\fR(\fBconst nis_name\fR \fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_name *\fBnis_getnames\fR(\fBconst nis_name\fR \fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_freenames\fR(\fBnis_name *\fInamelist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBname_pos\fR \fBnis_dir_cmp\fR(\fBconst nis_name\fR \fIn1\fR, \fBconst nis_name\fR \fIn2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_object *\fBnis_clone_object\fR(\fBconst nis_object *\fIsrc\fR, \fBnis_object *\fIdest\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_destroy_object\fR(\fBnis_object *\fIobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_print_object\fR(\fBconst nis_object *\fIobj\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These subroutines are provided to assist in the development of NIS+
applications. They provide several useful operations on both NIS+ names and
objects.
.sp
.LP
The first group,
.BR nis_leaf_of() ,
.BR nis_domain_of() ,
and
.B nis_name_of()
provide the functions for parsing NIS+ names.
.B nis_leaf_of()
will return the first label in an NIS+ name. It takes into
account the double quote character \fB`"'\fR which can be used to protect
embedded
.B `.'
(dot) characters in object names. Note that the name
returned will never have a trailing dot character. If passed the global root
directory name ".", it will return the null string.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_domain_of()
returns the name of the NIS+ domain in which an object
resides. This name will always be a fully qualified NIS+ name and ends with a
dot. By iteratively calling
.BR nis_leaf_of() " and  "
.B nis_domain_of()
it
is possible to break a NIS+ name into its individual components.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_name_of()
is used to extract the unique part of a  NIS+ name.  This
function removes from the tail portion of the name all labels that are in
common with the local domain. Thus if a machine were in domain
.B foo.bar.baz.
and
.B nis_name_of()
were passed a name
.BR bob.friends.foo.bar.baz ,
then
.B nis_name_of()
would return the
unique part,
.BR bob.friends .
If the name passed to this function is not in
either the local domain or one of its children, this function will return
null.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_getnames()
will return a list of candidate names for the name
passed in as
.IR name .
If this name is not fully qualified,
.B nis_getnames()
will generate a list of names using the default NIS+
directory search path, or the environment variable
.B NIS_PATH
if it is
set. The returned array of pointers is terminated by a null pointer, and the
memory associated with this array should be freed by calling
.B nis_freenames()
.sp
.LP
Though
.B nis_dir_cmp()
can be used to compare any two NIS+ names, it is
used primarily to compare domain names. This comparison is done in a case
independent fashion, and the results are an enum of type
.BR name_pos .
When
the names passed to this function are identical, the function returns a value
of
.B SAME_NAME.
If the name
.I n1
is a direct ancestor of name
.IR n2 ,
then this function returns the result
.B HIGHER_NAME.
Similarly,
if the name
.I n1
is a direct descendant of name
.IR n2 ,
then this
function returns the result
.B LOWER_NAME.
When the name
.I n1
is
neither a direct ancestor nor a direct descendant of
.IR n2 ,
as it would be
if the two names were siblings in separate portions of the namespace, then
this function returns the result
.B NOT_SEQUENTIAL.
Finally, if either name
cannot be parsed as a legitimate name then this function returns the value
.B BAD_NAME.
.sp
.LP
The second set of functions, consisting of
.B nis_clone_object()
and
.BR nis_destroy_object() ,
are used for manipulating objects.
.B nis_clone_object()
creates an exact duplicate of the NIS+ object
.IR src .
If the value of
.I dest
is non-null, it creates the clone of the
object into this object structure and allocate the necessary memory for the
variable length arrays. If this parameter is null, a pointer to the cloned
object is returned. Refer to
.BR nis_objects (3NSL)
for a description of the
.B nis_object
structure.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_destroy_object()
can be used to destroy an object created by
.BR nis_clone_object() .
This will free up all memory associated with the
object and free the pointer passed. If the object was cloned into an array
using the
.I dest
parameter to
.BR nis_clone_object() ,
then the object
.I cannot
be freed with this function. Instead, the function
.BI xdr_free(xdr_nis_object, dest )
must be used.
.sp
.LP
.B nis_print_object()
prints out the contents of a NIS+ object structure
on the standard output. Its primary use is for debugging NIS+ programs.
.sp
.LP
.BR nis_leaf_of() ,
\fBnis_name_of()\fRand
.B nis_clone_object()
return
their results as thread-specific data in multithreaded applications.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B NIS_PATH
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This variable overrides the default NIS+ directory search path used by
.BR nis_getnames() .
It contains an ordered list of directories separated by
\&':' (colon) characters. The '$' (dollar sign) character is treated
specially. Directory names that end in '$' have the default domain appended to
them, and a '$' by itself is replaced by the list of directories between the
default domain and the global root that are at least two levels deep. The
default NIS+ directory search path is '$'.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR nis_tables (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
