'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nis_objects 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nis_objects \- NIS+ object formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
/usr/include/rpcsvc/nis_objects.x
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Common Attributes"
.sp
.LP
The NIS+ service uses a variant record structure to hold the contents of
the objects that are used by the NIS+ service.  These objects all share a
common structure that defines a set of attributes that all objects possess.
The
.B nis_object
structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef	char	*nis_name;
	struct	nis_object {
		nis_oid		zo_oid;
		nis_name	zo_name;
		nis_name	zo_owner;
		nis_name	zo_group;
		nis_name	zo_domain;
		uint_t		zo_access;
		uint32_t		zo_ttl;
		objdata		zo_data;
        };
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In this structure, the first member
.BR zo_oid ,
is a 64 bit number that
uniquely identifies this instance of the object on this server. This member
is filled in by the server when the object is created and changed by the
server when the object is modified. When used in conjunction with the
object's name and domain it uniquely identifies the object  in the entire
NIS+ namespace.
.sp
.LP
The second member,
.BR zo_name ,
contains the leaf name of the object.
This name is  never terminated with a `.' (dot). When an object is created
or added to the namespace, the client library will automatically fill in
this field and the domain name from the name that was passed to the
function.
.sp
.LP
.B zo_domain
contains the name of the  NIS+ domain to which this object
belongs. This information is useful when tracking the parentage of an object
from a cache. When used in conjunction with the members
.B zo_name
and
.BR zo_oid ,
it uniquely identifies an object.  This makes it possible to
always reconstruct the name of an object by using the code fragment
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sprintf(buf,"%s.%s", obj->zo_name, obj->zo_domain);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B zo_owner
and
.B zo_group
members contain the NIS+ names of
the object's principal owner and group owner, respectively. Both names must
be NIS+ fully qualified names. However, neither name can be used directly to
identify the object they represent. This stems from the condition that NIS+
uses itself to store information that it exports.
.sp
.LP
The
.B zo_owner
member contains a fully qualified NIS+ name of the form
.IR principal.domain .
This name is called a NIS+ principal name and is
used to identify authentication information in a credential table. When the
server constructs a search query of the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB[cname=\fIprincipal\fB],cred.org_dir.\fIdomain\fB\&.\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The query will return to the server credential information about
.I principal
for all flavors of
.B RPC
authentication that are in use
by that principal. When an
.B RPC
request is made to the server, the
authentication flavor is extracted from the request and is used to find out
the NIS+ principal name of the client. For example, if the client is using
the
.B AUTH_DES
authentication flavor, it will include in the
authentication credentials the network name or
.I netname
of the user
making the request. This netname will be of the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBunix.\fIUID\fB@\fIdomain\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The  NIS+ server will then construct a query on the credential database of
the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB[auth_name=\fInetname\fB,auth_type=AUTH_DES],cred.org_dir.\fIdomain\fB\&.\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This query will return an entry which contains a principal name in the
first column. This NIS+ principal name is used to control access to NIS+
objects.
.sp
.LP
The group owner for the object is treated differently. The group owner
member is optional (it should be the null string if not present) but must be
fully qualified if present. A group name takes the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIgroup.domain.\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
which the server then maps into a name of the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIgroup\fB\&.groups_dir.\fIdomain.\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The purpose of this mapping is to prevent NIS+ group names from conflicting
with user specified domain or table names. For example, if a domain was
called
.IR engineering.foo.com. ,
then without the mapping a NIS+ group of
the same name to represent members of engineering would not be possible. The
contents of groups are lists of NIS+ principal names which are used exactly
like the
.B zo_owner
name in the object. See
.BR nis_groups (3NSL)
for
more details.
.sp
.LP
The
.B zo_access
member contains the bitmask of access rights assigned
to this object. There are four access rights defined, and four are reserved
for future use and must be zero. This group of 8 access rights can be
granted to four categories of client. These categories are the object's
owner, the object's group owner, all authenticated clients (world),  and all
unauthenticated clients (nobody). Note that access granted to  ``nobody'' is
really access granted to everyone, authenticated  and unauthenticated
clients.
.sp
.LP
The
.B zo_ttl
member contains the number of seconds that the object can
``live'' in a cache before it is expired. This value is called the time to
live for this object. This number is particularly important on group and
directory (domain) objects. When an object is  cached, the current time is
added to the value in
.BR zo_ttl .
Then each time the cached object is
used, the time in
.B zo_ttl
is compared with the current time. If the
current time is later than the time in
.B zo_ttl
the object is said to
have expired and the cached copy should not be used.
.sp
.LP
Setting the
.B TTL
is somewhat of an art. You can think of it as the
``half life'' of the object, or half the amount of time you believe will
pass before the object changes. The benefit of setting the ttl to a large
number is that the object will stay in a cache for long periods of time. The
problem with setting it to a large value is that when the object changes it
will take a long time for the caches to flush out old copies of that object.
The problems and benefits are reversed for setting the time to a small
value. Generally setting the value to 43200 (12 hrs) is reasonable for
things that change day to day, and 3024000 is good for things that change
week to  week. Setting the value to 0 will prevent the object from ever
being cached since it would expire immediately.
.sp
.LP
The
.B zo_data
member is a discriminated union with the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
zotypes zo_type;
	union {
		struct directory_obj	di_data;
		struct group_obj	gr_data;
		struct table_obj	ta_data;
		struct entry_obj	en_data;
		struct link_obj	li_data;
		struct {
		           uint_t	po_data_len;
		           char	*po_data_val;
		} po_data;
        } objdata_u;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The union is discriminated based on the type value contained in
.BR zo_type .
There six types of objects currently defined in the NIS+
service. These types are the directory, link, group, table, entry, and
private types.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
enum zotypes {
		BOGUS_OBJ	= 0,
		NO_OBJ	= 1,
		DIRECTORY_OBJ	= 2,
		GROUP_OBJ	= 3,
		TABLE_OBJ	= 4,
		ENTRY_OBJ	= 5,
		LINK_OBJ	= 6,
		PRIVATE_OBJ	= 7
	};
	typedef enum zotypes zotypes;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All object types define a structure that contains data  specific to that
type of object. The simplest are private objects which are defined to
contain a variable length array of octets. Only the owner of the object is
expected to understand the contents of a private object. The following
section describe the other five object types in more significant detail.
.SS "Directory Objects"
.sp
.LP
The first type of object is the
.I directory
object. This object's
variant part is defined as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
enum nstype {
		UNKNOWN	= 0,
		NIS	= 1,
		SUNYP	= 2,
		DNS	= 4,
		X500	= 5,
		DNANS	= 6,
		XCHS	= 7,
	}
	typedef enum nstype nstype;
	struct oar_mask {
		uint_t	oa_rights;
		zotypes	oa_otype;
	}
	typedef struct oar_mask oar_mask;
	struct endpoint {
		char	*uaddr;
		char	*family;
		char	*proto;
	}
	typedef struct endpoint endpoint;
	struct nis_server {
		nis_name	name;
		struct {
			uint_t	ep_len;
			endpoint	*ep_val;
		} ep;
		uint_t	key_type;
		netobj	pkey;
	}
	typedef struct nis_server nis_server;
	struct directory_obj {
		nis_name	 do_name;
		nstype	 do_type;
		struct {
			uint_t	do_servers_len;
			nis_server	*do_servers_val;
		} do_servers;
		uint32_t	do_ttl;
		struct {
			uint_t	do_armask_len;
			oar_mask	*do_armask_val;
		} do_armask;
	}
        typedef struct directory_obj directory_obj;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The main structure contains five primary members:
.BR do_name ,
.BR do_type ,
.BR do_servers ,
.BR do_ttl ,
and
.BR do_armask .
The
information in the
.B do_servers
structure is sufficient for the client
library to create a network connection with the named server for the
directory.
.sp
.LP
The
.B do_name
member contains the name of the directory or domain
represented in a format that is understandable by the type of nameservice
serving that domain. In the case of NIS+ domains, this is the same as the
name that can be composed using the
.B zo_name
and
.BR zo_domain
members. For other name services, this name will be a name that they
understand. For example, if this were a directory object describing an X.500
namespace that is ``under'' the NIS+ directory
.IR eng.sun.com. ,
this
name might contain  ``/C=US, /O=Sun Microsystems, /OU=Engineering/''. The
type of nameservice that is being described is determined by the value of
the member
.BR do_type .
.sp
.LP
The
.B do_servers
.RB "structure contains two members." " do_servers_val"
is an array of
.I nis_server
structures;
.B do_servers_len
is the
number of cells in the array. The
.B nis_server
structure is designed to
contain enough information such that machines on the network providing name
services can be contacted without having to use a name service. In the case
of NIS+ servers, this information is the name of the machine in
.IR name ,
its public key for authentication in
.IR pkey ,
and a variable length array
of endpoints, each of which describes the network endpoint for the
.B rpcbind
daemon on the named machine. The client library uses the
addresses to contact the server using a transport that both the client and
server can communicate on and then queries the
.B rpcbind
daemon to get
the actual transport address that the server is using.
.sp
.LP
Note that the first server in the
.I do_servers
list is always the
master server for the directory.
.sp
.LP
The
.I key_type
field describes the type of key stored in the
.IR pkey
netobj (see
.B /usr/include/rpc/xdr.h
for a definition of the network
object structure). Currently supported types are
.B NIS_PK_NONE
for no
public key,
.B NIS_PK_DH
for a Diffie-Hellman type public key, and
.B NIS_PK_DHEXT
for an extended Diffie-Hellman public key.
.sp
.LP
The
.B do_ttl
member contains a copy of the
.B zo_ttl
member from
the common attributes. This is the duplicated  because the cache manager
only caches the variant part of the directory object.
.sp
.LP
The
.B do_armask
structure contains two members.
.B do_armask_val
is
an array of
.B oar_mask
structures;
.B do_armask_len
is the number of
cells in the array. The
.B oar_mask
structure contains two members:
.B oa_rights
specifies the access rights allowed for objects of type
.BR oa_otype .
These access rights are used for objects of the given type
in the directory when they are present in this array.
.sp
.LP
The granting of access rights for objects contained within a directory is
actually two-tiered.  If the directory object itself grants a given access
right (using the
.B zo_access
member in the
.B nis_object
structure
representing the directory), then all objects within the directory are
allowed that access. Otherwise, the
.B do_armask
structure is examined to
see if the access is allowed specifically for that type of structure.  This
allows the administrator of a namespace to set separate policies for
different object types, for example, one policy for the creation of tables
and another policy for the creation of other directories. See
.BR NIS+ (1)
for more details.
.SS "Link Objects"
.sp
.LP
Link objects provide a means of providing
.I aliases
or symbolic links
within the namespace. Their variant part is defined as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct link_obj {
	zotypes	li_rtype;
	struct {
		uint_t	li_attrs_len;
		nis_attr	*li_attrs_val;
	} li_attrs;
	nis_name li_name;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B li_rtype
member contains the object type of the object pointed to
by the link. This is only a hint, since the object which the link points to
may have changed or been removed. The fully qualified name of the object
(table or otherwise) is specified in the member
.BR li_name .
.sp
.LP
NIS+ links can point to either other objects within the NIS+ namespace, or
to entries within a NIS+ table. If the object pointed to by the link is a
table and the member
.B li_attrs
has a nonzero number of attributes
(index name/value pairs) specified, the table is searched when this link is
followed. All entries which match the specified search pattern are returned.
Note, that unless the flag
.B FOLLOW_LINKS
is specified, the
.BR nis_lookup (3NSL)
function will always return non-entry objects.
.SS "Group Objects"
.sp
.LP
Group objects contain a membership list of  NIS+ principals. The group
objects' variant part is defined as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct group_obj {
	uint_t	gr_flags;
	struct {
		uint_t	gr_members_len;
		nis_name	*gr_members_val;
	} gr_members;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B gr_flags
member contains flags that are currently unused. The
.B gr_members
structure contains the list of principals. For a complete
description of how group objects are manipulated see
.BR nis_groups (3NSL).
.SS "Table Objects"
.sp
.LP
The NIS+ table object is analogous to a
.B YP
map. The differences stem
from the access controls, and the variable schemas that NIS+ allows. The
table objects data structure is defined as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define TA_BINARY	1
#define TA_CRYPT	2
#define TA_XDR	4
#define TA_SEARCHABLE	8
#define TA_CASE	16
#define TA_MODIFIED	32
struct table_col {
	char	*tc_name;
	uint_t	tc_flags;
	uint_t	tc_rights;
}
typedef struct table_col table_col;
struct table_obj {
	char	*ta_type;
	uint_t	ta_maxcol;
	uchar_t	ta_sep;
	struct {
		uint_t	ta_cols_len;
		table_col	*ta_cols_val;
	} ta_cols;
	char	*ta_path;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B ta_type
member contains a string that identifies the type of
entries in this table. NIS+ does not enforce any policies as to the contents
of this string. However, when entries are added to the table, the NIS+
service will check to see that they have the same ``type'' as the table as
specified by this member.
.sp
.LP
The structure
.B ta_cols
contains two members.
.B ta_cols_val
is an
array of
.B table_col
structures. The length of the array depends on the
number of columns in the table; it is defined when the table is created and
is stored in
.BR ta_cols_len .
.B ta_maxcol
also contains the number of
columns in the table and always has the same value as
.BR ta_cols_len .
Once the table is created, this length field cannot be changed.
.sp
.LP
The
.B ta_sep
character is used by client applications that wish to
print out an entry from the table. Typically this is either space (`` '') or
colon (``:'').
.sp
.LP
The
.B ta_path
string defines a concatenation path for tables. This
string contains an ordered list of fully qualified table names, separated by
colons, that are to be searched if a search on this table fails to match any
entries. This path is only used with the flag
.B FOLLOW_PATH
with a
.B nis_list()
call. See
.BR nis_tables (3NSL)
for information on these
flags.
.sp
.LP
In addition to checking the type, the service will  check  that the number
of columns in an entry is the same as those in the table before allowing
that entry to be added.
.sp
.LP
Each column has associated with it a name in
.BR tc_name ,
a set of flags
in
.BR tc_flags ,
and a set of access rights in
.BR tc_rights .
The name
should be indicative of the contents of that column.
.sp
.LP
The
.B TA_BINARY
flag indicates that data in the column is binary
(rather than text). Columns that are searchable cannot contain binary data.
The
.B TA_CRYPT
flag specifies that the information in this column should
be encrypted prior to sending it over the network. This flag has no effect
in the export version of NIS+. The
.B TA_XDR
flag is used to tell the
client application that the data in this column is encoded using the XDR
protocol. The
.B TA_BINARY
flag must be specified with the XDR flag.
Further, by convention, the name of a column that has the
.B TA_XDR
flag
set is the name of the XDR function that will decode the data in that
column.
.sp
.LP
The
.B TA_SEARCHABLE
flag specifies that values in this column can be
searched. Searchable columns must contain textual data and must have a name
associated with them. The flag
.B TA_CASE
specifies that searches
involving this column ignore the case of the value in the column. At least
one of the columns in the table should be searchable. Also, the combination
of all searchable column values should uniquely select an entry within the
table. The
.B TA_MODIFIED
flag is set only when the table column is
modified. When
.B TA_MODIFIED
is set, and the object is modified again,
the modified access rights for the table column must be copied, not the
default access rights.
.SS "Entry Objects"
.sp
.LP
Entry objects are stored in tables. The structure used to define the entry
data is as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define EN_BINARY	1
#define EN_CRYPT	2
#define EN_XDR	4
#define EN_MODIFIED	8
struct entry_col {
	uint_t	ec_flags;
	struct {
		uint_t	ec_value_len;
		char	*ec_value_val;
	} ec_value;
}
typedef struct entry_col entry_col;
struct entry_obj {
	char	*en_type;
	struct {
		uint_t	en_cols_len;
		entry_col	*en_cols_val;
	} en_cols;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.B en_type
member contains a string that specifies the type of data
this entry represents. The NIS+ server will compare this string to the type
string specified in the table object and disallow any updates or
modifications if they differ.
.sp
.LP
The
.B en_cols
structure contains two members:
.B en_cols_len
and
.BR en_cols_val .
.B en_cols_val
is an array of
.BR entry_col
structures.
.B en_cols_len
contains a count of the number of cells in the
.B en_cols_val
array and reflects the number of columns in the table --
it always contains the same value as the
.BR table_obj.ta_cols.ta_cols_len
member from the table which contains the entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.B entry_col
structure contains information about the entry's
per-column values.
.B ec_value
contains information about a particular
value. It has two members:
.BR ec_value_val ,
which is the value itself,
and
.BR ec_value_len ,
which is the length (in bytes) of the value.
.B entry_col
also contains the member
.BR ec_flags ,
which contains a
set of flags for the entry.
.sp
.LP
The flags in
.B ec_flags
are primarily used when adding or modifying
entries in a table. All columns that have the flag
.B EN_CRYPT
set will
be encrypted prior to sending them over the network. Columns with
.B EN_BINARY
set are presumed to contain binary data. The server will
ensure that the column in the table object specifies binary data prior to
allowing the entry to be added. When modifying entries in a table, only
those columns that have changed need be sent to the server. Those columns
should each have the
.B EN_MODIFIED
flag set to indicate this to the
server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR NIS+ (1),
.BR nis_groups (3NSL),
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_server (3NSL),
.BR nis_subr (3NSL),
.BR nis_tables (3NSL)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
