'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH nis_server 3NSL "10 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nis_server, nis_mkdir, nis_rmdir, nis_servstate, nis_stats,
nis_getservlist, nis_freeservlist, nis_freetags \- miscellaneous NIS+
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <rpcsvc/nis.h>

\fBnis_error\fR \fBnis_mkdir\fR(\fBnis_name\fR \fIdirname\fR, \fBnis_server *\fImachine\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_error\fR \fBnis_rmdir\fR(\fBnis_name\fR \fIdirname\fR, \fBnis_server *\fImachine\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_error\fR \fBnis_servstate\fR(\fBnis_server *\fImachine\fR, \fBnis_tag *\fItags\fR, \fBint\fR \fInumtags\fR,
     \fBnis_tag **\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_error\fR \fBnis_stats\fR(\fBnis_server *\fImachine\fR, \fBnis_tag *\fItags\fR, \fBint\fR \fInumtags\fR,
     \fBnis_tag **\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_freetags\fR(\fBnis_tag *\fItags\fR, \fBint\fR \fInumtags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnis_server **\fBnis_getservlist\fR(\fBnis_name\fR \fIdirname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBnis_freeservlist\fR(\fBnis_server **\fImachines\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions provide a variety of services for NIS+ applications.
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_mkdir()
function is used to create the necessary databases to
support NIS+ service for a directory,
.IR dirname ,
on a server,
.IR machine .
If this operation is successful, it means that the directory
object describing
.I dirname
has been updated to reflect that server
.I machine
is serving the named directory. For a description of the
.B nis_server
structure, refer to
.BR nis_objects (3NSL).
.sp
.LP
Per-server and per-directory access restrictions can apply to the
.B nis_mkdir()
function. See
.BR nisopaccess (1).
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_rmdir()
function is used to delete the directory,
.IR dirname ,
from the specified server machine. The \fImachine\fR
parameter cannot be
.IR NULL .
The
.B nis_rmdir()
function does not
remove the directory
.I dirname
from the namespace or remove a server
from the server list in the directory object. To remove a directory from the
namespace you must call
.B nis_remove()
to remove the directory
.B dirname
from the namespace and call the\fBnis_rmdir()\fR for each
server in the server list to remove the directory from the server. To remove
a replica from the server list, you need to first call
.B nis_modify()
to
remove the server from the directory object and then call
.BR nis_rmdir()
to remove the replica.
.sp
.LP
Per-server and per-directory access restrictions can apply to
.BR nis_rmdir() .
See
.BR nisopaccess (1).
.sp
.LP
For a description of the
.B nis_server
structure, refer to
.BR nis_objects (3NSL).
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_servstate()
function is used to set and read the various
state variables of the NIS+ servers. In particular the internal debugging
state of the servers can be set and queried.
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_stats()
function is used to retrieve statistics about how the
server is operating. Tracking these statistics can help administrators
determine when they need to add additional replicas or to break up a domain
into two or more subdomains. For more information on reading statistics, see
.BR nisstat (1M)
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_servstate()
and
.B nis_stats()
functions use the tag list.
The tag list is a variable length array of
.I nis_tag
structures whose
length is passed to the function in the
.I numtags
parameter. The set of
legal tags are defined in the file <\fBrpcsvc/nis_tags.h\fR> which is
included in <\fBrpcsvc/nis.h\fR>. Because these tags can and do vary between
implementations of the NIS+ service, it is best to consult this file for the
supported list. Passing unrecognized tags to a server will result in their
.I tag_value
member being set to the string
.BR unknown .
Both of these
functions return their results in malloced tag structure,
.IR *result .
If
there is an error,
.I *result
is set to
.IR NULL .
The
.IR tag_value
pointers points to allocated string memory which contains the results. Use
.B nis_freetags()
to free the tag structure.
.sp
.LP
Per-server and per-directory access restrictions can apply to the
.B NIS_SERVSTATE
or
.B NIS_STATUS
(\fBnis_stats()\fR) operations and
their sub-operations
.RI ( tags ).
See
.BR nisopaccess (1).
.sp
.LP
The
.B nis_getservlist()
function returns a null terminated list of
.I nis_server
structures that represent the list of servers that serve
the domain named
.IR dirname .
Servers from this list can be used when
calling functions that require the name of a NIS+ server. For a description
of the
.B nis_server
refer to
.BR nis_objects (3NSL).
.B nis_freeservlist()
frees the list of servers list of servers returned
by
.BR nis_getservlist() .
Note that this is the only legal way to free
that list.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR nisopaccess (1),
.BR nisstat (1M),
.BR nis_names (3NSL),
.BR nis_objects (3NSL),
.BR nis_subr (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating
system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the
current Solaris release. For more information, visit
http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
