'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_seccreate 3NSL "29 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_seccreate \- create a security context using the RPCSEC_GSS
protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBAUTH  *\fBrpc_gss_seccreate\fR(\fBCLIENT\fR \fI*clnt\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*principal\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*mechanism\fR,
     \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR \fIservice_type\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*qop\fR,
     \fBrpc_gss_options_req_t\fR \fI*options_req\fR,
     \fBrpc_gss_options_ret_t\fR \fI*options_ret\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_seccreate()
is used by an appliction to create a security
context using the
.B RPCSEC_GSS
protocol, making use of the underlying
.B GSS-API
network layer.
.B rpc_gss_seccreate()
allows an
application to specify the type of security mechanism (for example, Kerberos
v5), the type of service (for example, integrity checking), and the Quality
of Protection
.RB ( QOP )
desired for transferring data.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I clnt
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This is the RPC client handle.
.I clnt
may be obtained, for example,
from
.BR clnt_create() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I principal
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This is the identity of the server principal, specified in the form
\fIservice\fR@\fIhost\fR, where
.I service
is the name of the service the
client wishes to access and
.I host
is the fully qualified name of the
host where the service resides \(em for example,
nfs@mymachine.eng.company.com.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mechanism
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This is an ASCII string which indicates which security mechanism to use
with this data.  Appropriate mechanisms may be found in the file
.BR /etc/gss/mech ;
additionally,
.B rpc_gss_get_mechanisms()
returns a
list of supported security mechanisms (as null-terminated strings).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I service_type
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This sets the initial type of service for the session \(em privacy,
integrity, authentication, or none.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I qop
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This is an ASCII string which sets the quality of protection (QOP) for the
session. Appropriate values for this string may be found in the file
.BR /etc/gss/qop .
Additionally, supported QOPs are returned (as
null-terminated strings) by
.BR rpc_gss_get_mech_info() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I options_req
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This structure contains options which are passed directly to the underlying
.B GSS_API
layer.  If the caller specifies
.I NULL
for this parameter,
defaults are used. (See
.BR NOTES ,
below.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I options_ret
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
These
.B GSS-API
options are returned to the caller. If the caller does
not need to see these options, then it may specify
.I NULL
for this
parameter. (See
.B NOTES,
below.)
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_seccreate()
returns a security context handle (an RPC
authentication handle) of type
.BR AUTH .
If
.BR rpc_gss_seccreate()
cannot return successfully, the application can get an error number by
calling
.BR rpc_gss_get_error() .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/mech
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/qop
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
File containing valid QOP values.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bits)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bits)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR auth_destroy (3NSL),
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_error (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_mechanisms (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR mech (4),
.BR qop (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2743, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface Version 2, Update 1\fR. Network Working Group. January 2000.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Contexts may be destroyed normally, with
.BR auth_destroy() .
See
.BR auth_destroy (3NSL)
