'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_xdr 3NSL "30 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_xdr, xdr_accepted_reply, xdr_authsys_parms, xdr_callhdr, xdr_callmsg,
xdr_opaque_auth, xdr_rejected_reply, xdr_replymsg \- XDR library routines
for remote procedure calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_accepted_reply\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBconst struct accepted_reply *\fIar\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_authsys_parms\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBstruct authsys_parms *\fIaupp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBxdr_callhdr\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBstruct rpc_msg *\fIchdr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_callmsg\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBstruct rpc_msg *\fIcmsg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_opaque_auth\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBstruct opaque_auth *\fIap\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_rejected_reply\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fB const struct rejected_reply *\fIrr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_replymsg\fR(\fBXDR *\fIxdrs\fR, \fBconst struct rpc_msg *\fIrmsg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines are used for describing the
.B RPC
messages in
.BR XDR
language. They should normally be used by those who do not want to use the
.B RPC
package directly. These routines return TRUE if they succeed,
FALSE otherwise.
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
See
.BR rpc (3NSL)
for the definition of the
.B XDR
data structure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 #include <rpc/rpc.h>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_accepted_reply()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used to translate between
.B RPC
reply messages and their external
representation. It includes the status of the
.B RPC
call in the
.B XDR
language format.  In the case of success, it also includes the
call results.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_authsys_parms()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B UNIX
operating system credentials. It includes
machine-name, uid, gid list, etc.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_callhdr()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B RPC
call header messages. It encodes the static
part of the call message header in the
.B XDR
language format. It
includes information such as transaction
.B "ID, RPC"
version number,
program and version number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_callmsg()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B RPC
call messages. This includes all the
.B RPC
call information such as transaction
.B "ID, RPC"
version
number, program number, version number, authentication information, etc.
This is normally used by servers to determine information about the client
.B RPC
call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_opaque_auth()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B RPC
opaque authentication information messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_rejected_reply()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B RPC
reply messages. It encodes the rejected
.B RPC
message in the
.B XDR
language format. The message could be
rejected either because of version number mis-match or because of
authentication errors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B xdr_replymsg()
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
Used for describing
.B RPC
reply messages. It translates between the
.B RPC
reply message and its external representation. This reply could be
either an acceptance, rejection or
.IR NULL .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR xdr (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
