'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_clnt_auth 3NSL "14 Jan 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_clnt_auth, auth_destroy, authnone_create, authsys_create,
authsys_create_default \- library routines for client side remote procedure
call authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBauth_destroy\fR(\fBAUTH *\fIauth\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBAUTH *\fBauthnone_create	\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBAUTH *\fBauthsys_create\fR(\fBconst cha r*\fIhost\fR, \fB const uid_t\fR \fIuid\fR, \fBconst gid_t\fR \fIgid\fR,
     \fBconst int\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBconst gid_t *\fIaup_gids\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBAUTH *\fBauthsys_create_default\fR(void)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines are part of the
.B RPC
library that allows C language
programs to make procedure calls on other machines across the network, with
desired authentication.
.sp
.LP
These routines are normally called after creating the
.B CLIENT
handle.
The
.B cl_auth
field of the
.B CLIENT
structure should be initialized
by the
.B AUTH
structure returned by some of the following routines. The
client's authentication information is passed to the server when the
\fBRPC\fR call is made.
.sp
.LP
Only the
.I NULL
and the
.B SYS
style of authentication is discussed
here. For the
.B DES
style authentication, please refer to
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL).
.sp
.LP
The
.I NULL
and
.B SYS
style of authentication are safe in
multithreaded applications. For the MT-level of the
.B DES
style, see its
pages.
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
The following routines require that the header
.B <rpc/rpc.h>
be
included (see \fBrpc\fR(3NSL) for the definition of the
.B AUTH
data
structure).
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <rpc/rpc.h>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B auth_destroy()
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
A function macro that destroys the authentication information associated
with
.IR auth .
Destruction usually involves deallocation of private data
structures. The use of
.I auth
is undefined after calling
.BR auth_destroy() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B authnone_create()
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Create and return an RPC authentication handle that passes nonusable
authentication information with each remote procedure call. This is the
default authentication used by RPC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B authsys_create()
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Create and return an
.B RPC
authentication handle that contains
\fBAUTH_SYS\fR authentication information. The parameter \fIhost\fR is the
name of the machine on which the information was created;
.I uid
is the
user's user
.B ID;
\fIgid\fR is the user's current group \fBID;\fR
\fIlen\fR and \fIaup_gids\fR refer to a counted array of groups to which the
user belongs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBauthsys_create_default\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt
Call
.B authsys_create()
with the appropriate parameters.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_clnt_calls (3NSL),
.BR rpc_clnt_create (3NSL),
.BR secure_rpc (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
