'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_svc_err 3NSL "20 Feb 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_svc_err, svcerr_auth, svcerr_decode, svcerr_noproc, svcerr_noprog,
svcerr_progvers, svcerr_systemerr, svcerr_weakauth \- library routines for
server side remote procedure call errors
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines are part of the
.B RPC
library which allows C language
programs to make procedure calls on other machines across the network.
.sp
.LP
These routines can be called by the server side dispatch function if there
is any error in the transaction with the client.
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
See
.BR rpc (3NSL)
for the definition of the
.B SVCXPRT
data
structure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB#include <rpc/rpc.h>\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_auth(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR, const enum auth_stat
.IR why );
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called by a service dispatch routine that refuses to perform a remote
procedure call due to an authentication error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_decode(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called by a service dispatch routine that cannot successfully decode the
remote parameters (see
.B svc_getargs()
in
.BR rpc_svc_reg (3NSL)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_noproc(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called by a service dispatch routine that does not implement the procedure
number that the caller requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_noprog(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called when the desired program is not registered with the
.BR RPC
package. Service implementors usually do not need this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_progvers(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR, const rpcvers_t
.IR low_vers ,
const rpcvers_t \fIhigh_vers\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called when the desired version of a program is not registered with the
.B RPC
package.
.I low_vers
is the lowest version number, and
.I high_vers
is the highest version number. Service implementors usually
do not need this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_systemerr(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called by a service dispatch routine when it detects a system error not
covered by any particular protocol. For example, if a service can no longer
allocate storage, it may call this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid svcerr_weakauth(const SVCXPRT *\fIxprt\fR);\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Called by a service dispatch routine that refuses to perform a remote
procedure call due to insufficient (but correct) authentication parameters.
The routine calls
.BR "svcerr_auth(xprt, AUTH_TOOWEAK)" .
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_svc_calls (3NSL),
.BR rpc_svc_create (3NSL),
.BR rpc_svc_reg (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
