'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_set_defaults 3NSL "5 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_set_defaults \- change service, QOP for a session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_set_defaults\fR(\fBAUTH\fR \fI*auth\fR, \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR \fIservice\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*qop\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_set_defaults()
allows an application to change the service
(privacy, integrity, authentication, or none) and Quality of Protection
(QOP) for a transfer session.  New values apply to the rest of the session
(unless changed again).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I auth
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An RPC authentication handle returned by
.BR rpc_gss_seccreate() ).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I service
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An enum of type
.BR rpc_gss_service_t ,
representing one of the following
types of security service:  authentication, privacy, integrity, or none.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I qop
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A string representing Quality of Protection.  Valid strings may be found in
the file
.B /etc/gss/qop
or by using
.BR rpc_gss_get_mech_info() .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_set_svc_name()
returns  TRUE if it is successful; otherwise,
use
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
to get the error associated with the
failure.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/qop
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
File containing valid QOPs
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_mech_info (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR qop (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program
Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
