'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_mech_to_oid 3NSL "5 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_mech_to_oid, rpc_gss_qop_to_num \- map mechanism, QOP strings to
non-string values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_mech_to_oid\fR(\fBcharc\fI*mech\fR, \fBrpc_gss_OIDc\fI*oid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_qop_to_num\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*qop\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*mech\fR, \fBu_int\fR \fI*num\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Because in-kernel RPC routines use non-string values for mechanism and
Quality of Protection (QOP), these routines exist to map strings for these
attributes to their non-string counterparts.   (The non-string values for
QOP and mechanism are also found in the
.B /etc/gss/qop
and
.B /etc/gss/mech
files, respectively.)
.B rpc_gss_mech_to_oid()
takes
a string representing a mechanism, as well as a pointer to a
.B rpc_gss_OID
object identifier structure.  It then gives this structure
values corresponding to the indicated mechanism, so that the application can
now use the OID directly with RPC routines.
.B rpc_gss_qop_to_num()
does
much the same thing, taking strings for QOP and mechanism and returning a
number.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An ASCII string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid strings
may be found in the
.B /etc/gss/mech
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I oid
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
An object identifier of type
.BR rpc_gss_OID ,
whose elements are usable
by kernel-level RPC routines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I qop
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
This is an ASCII string which sets the quality of protection (QOP) for the
session. Appropriate values for this string may be found in the file
.BR /etc/gss/qop .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I num
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt
The non-string value for the QOP.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Both functions return TRUE if they are successful, FALSE otherwise.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/mech
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/qop
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
File containing valid QOP values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_error (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_mechanisms (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR mech (4),
.BR qop (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
