'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_svc_input 3NSL "6 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_svc_input, svc_add_input, svc_remove_input \- declare or remove a callback
on a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpc.h>

\fBtypedef void (*\fBsvc_callback_t\fR)(\fBsvc_input_id_t\fR \fIid\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfd\fR,
     \fBunsigned int\fR \fIevents\fR, \fBvoid *\fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvc_input_id_t\fR \fBsvc_add_input\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIrevents\fR,
     \fBsvc_callback_t\fR \fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsvc_remove_input\fR(\fBsvc_input_t\fR \fIid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The following RPC routines are used to declare or remove a callback on a file
descriptor.
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
See \fBrpc\fR(3NSL) for the definition of the
.B SVCXPRT
data structure.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B svc_add_input()
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
This function is used to register a
.I callback
function on a file
descriptor,
.IR fd .
The file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
is the first parameter to
be passed to
.BR svc_add_input() .
This
.I callback
function will be
automatically called if any of the events specified in the
.IR events
parameter occur on this descriptor. The
.I events
parameter is used to
specify when the callback is invoked. This parameter is a mask of poll events to
which the user wants to listen. See
.BR poll (2)
for further details of the
events that can be specified.
.sp
The callback to be invoked is specified using the
.I callback
parameter. The
.I cookie
parameter can be used to pass any data to the
.IR callback
function. This parameter is a user-defined value which is passed as an argument
to the
.I callback
function, and it is not used by the Sun RPC library
itself.
.sp
Several callbacks can be registered on the same file descriptor as long as each
callback registration specifies a separate set of event flags.
.sp
The
.I callback
function is called with the registration
.IR id ,
the
.I fd
file descriptor, an
.I revents
value, which is a bitmask of all
events concerning the file descriptor, and the
.I cookie
user-defined
value.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the function returns a unique identifier for this
registration, that can be used later to remove this callback. Upon failure,
.B -1
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.sp
The
.B svc_add_input()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I fd
or
.I events
parameters are invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EEXIST
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A callback is already registered to the file descriptor with one of the
specified events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOMEM
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
Memory is exhausted.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B svc_remove_input()
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt
This function is used to unregister a callback function on a file descriptor,
.IR fd .
The
.I id
parameter specifies the registration to be removed.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the function returns zero. Upon failure, \fB-1\fR
is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.sp
The
.B svc_remove_input()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EINVAL
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
The
.I id
parameter is invalid.
.RE

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureAll
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR poll (2),
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
