'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_getcred 3NSL "5 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_getcred \- get credentials of client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_getcred\fR(\fBstruct svc_req\fR \fI*req\fR, \fBrpc_gss_rawcred_ t\fR \fI**rcred\fR,
     \fBrpc_gss_ucred\fR \fI**ucred\fR, \fBvoid\fR \fI**cookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_getcred()
is used by a server to fetch the credentials of a
client. These credentials may either be network credentials (in the form of
a
.B rpc_gss_rawcred_t
structure) or UNIX credentials.
.sp
.LP
For more information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types, see the
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL)
man page.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Essentially,
.B rpc_gss_getcred()
passes a pointer to a request
(\fBsvc_req\fR) as well as pointers to two credential structures and a
user-defined cookie; if
.B rpc_gss_getcred()
is successful, at least one
credential structure is "filled out" with values, as is, optionally, the
cookie.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I req
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
Pointer to the received service request.
.B svc_req
is an RPC
structure containing information on the context of an RPC invocation, such
as program, version, and transport information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I rcred
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A pointer to an
.B rpc_gss_rawcred_t
structure pointer. This structure
contains the version number of the
.B RPCSEC_GSS
protocol being used; the
security mechanism and QOPs for this session (as strings); principal names
for the client (as a
.B rpc_gss_principal_t
structure) and server (as a
string); and the security service (integrity, privacy, etc., as an enum).
If an application is not interested in these values, it may pass \fINULL\fR
for this parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I ucred
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The caller's UNIX credentials, in the form of a pointer to a pointer to a
.B rpc_gss_ucred_t
structure, which includes the client's uid and gids.
If an application is not interested in these values, it may pass \fINULL\fR
for this parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I cookie
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A four-byte quantity that an application may use in any manner it wants to;
RPC does not interpret it.  (For example, a cookie may be a pointer or index
to a structure that represents a context initiator.) See also
.BR rpc_gss_set_callback (3NSL).
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_getcred()
returns  TRUE if it is successful; otherwise, use
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
to get the error associated with the failure.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_set_callback (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_set_svc_name (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program
Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
