'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_get_error 3NSL "5 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_error \- get error codes on failure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_error\fR(\fBrpc_gss_error_t\fI*error\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
fetches an error code when an
.BR RPCSEC_GSS
routine fails.
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
uses a
.B rpc_gss_error_t
structure of the
following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct {
int	rpc_gss_error;		\fIRPCSEC_GSS error\fR	
int	system_error;		\fIsystem error\fR
} rpc_gss_error_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Currently the only error codes defined for this function are
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SUCCESS		0	/* no error */
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR	1	/* system error */
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B error
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A
.B rpc_gss_error_t
structure.  If the
.B rpc_gss_error
field is
equal to
.B RPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR,
the
.B system_error
field will
be set to the value of
.BR errno .
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Unless there is a failure indication from an invoked
.BR RPCSEC_GSS
function,
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
does not set
.B error
to a meaningful
value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR perror (3C),
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program
Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Only system errors are currently returned.
