'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_get_mechanisms 3NSL "29 Jun 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_mechanisms, rpc_gss_get_mech_info, rpc_gss_get_versions,
rpc_gss_is_installed \- get information on mechanisms and RPC version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBchar **\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms\fR(\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar **\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info\fR(\fBchar *\fImech\fR, \fBrpc_gss_service_t *\fIservice\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_versions\fR(\fBu_int *\fIvers_hi\fR, \fBu_int *\fIvers_lo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t rpc_gss_is\fR \fBinstalled\fR(\fBchar *\fImech\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These "convenience functions" return information on available security
mechanisms and versions of
.B RPCSEC_GSS
\&.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rpc_gss_get_mechanisms()
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Returns a list of supported security mechanisms as a null-terminated list
of character strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rpc_gss_get_mech_info()
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Takes two arguments:  an ASCII string representing a mechanism type, for
example,
.BR kerberosv5 ,
and a pointer to a
.B rpc_gss_service_t
enum.
.B rpc_gss_get_mech_info()
will return
.B NULL
upon error or if no
.B /etc/gss/qop
file is present. Otherwise, it returns a null-terminated
list of character strings of supported Quality of Protections (QOPs) for
this mechanism.
.B NULL
or empty list implies only that the default QOP
is available and can be specified to routines that need to take a QOP string
parameter as NULL or as an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rpc_gss_get_versions()
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Returns the highest and lowest versions of
.B RPCSEC_GSS
supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B rpc_gss_is_installed()
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt
Takes an ASCII string representing a mechanism, and returns
.B TRUE
if
the mechanism is installed.
.RE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An ASCII string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid strings
may also be found in the
.B /etc/gss/mech
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I service
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A pointer to a
.B rpc_gss_service_t
enum, representing the current
security service (privacy, integrity, or none).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I vers_hi
.ad
.br
.na
.I vers_lo
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
The highest and lowest versions of
.B RPCSEC_GSS
supported.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/mech
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/qop
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt
File containing valid QOP values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL),\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBmech\fR(4), \fBqop\fR(4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2743, Generic Security Service Application Program
Interface Version 2, Update 1\fR. Network Working Group. January 2000.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This function will change in a future release.
