'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH rpc_gss_set_svc_name 3NSL "5 Feb 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_set_svc_name \- send a principal name to a server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_set_svc_name\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*principal\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*mechanism\fR,
     \fBu_int\fR \fIreq_time\fR,\fBu_int\fR \fIprogram\fR, \fBu_int\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_set_svc_name()
sets the name of a principal the server is to
represent. If a server is going to act as more than one principal, this
procedure can be invoked for every such principal.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on
.B RPCSEC_GSS
data types for parameters may be found on
the
.BR rpcsec_gss "(3NSL) man page."
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I principal
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An ASCII string representing the server's principal name, given in the form
of
.IR service @\fIhost\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I mech
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
An
.B ASCII
string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid
strings may be found in the
.B /etc/gss/mech
file, or by using
.BR rpc_gss_get_mechanisms() .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I req_time
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The time, in seconds, for which a credential should be valid. Note that the
.I req_time
is a hint to the underlying mechanism. The actual time that
the credential will remain valid is mechanism dependent. In the case of
kerberos the actual time will be
.BR GSS_C_INDEFINITE .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I program
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B RPC
program number for this service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I version
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The
.B RPC
version number for this service.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B rpc_gss_set_svc_name()
returns
.B TRUE
if it is successful;
otherwise, use
.B rpc_gss_get_error()
to get the error associated with
the failure.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B /etc/gss/mech
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
AvailabilitySUNWrsg (32-bit)
_
SUNWrsgx (64-bit)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR rpc (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_mechanisms (3NSL),
.BR rpc_gss_get_principal_name (3NSL),
.BR rpcsec_gss (3NSL),
.BR mech (4),
.BR attributes (5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
