'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc. , All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_error 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_error \- produce error message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_error\fR(\fBconst char *\fIerrmsg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_error()
function produces a message on the standard error
output which describes the last error encountered during a call to a
transport function. The argument string
.I errmsg
is a user-supplied
error message that gives context to the error.
.sp
.LP
The error message is written as follows: first (if
.I errmsg
is not a
null pointer and the character pointed to be
.I errmsg
is not the null
character) the string pointed to by
.I errmsg
followed by a colon and a
space; then a standard error message string for the current error defined in
.BR t_errno .
If
.B t_errno
has a value different from
.BR TSYSERR ,
the standard error message string is followed by a newline character.  If,
however,
.B t_errno
is equal to
.BR TSYSERR ,
the
.B t_errno
string
is followed by the standard error message string for the current error
defined in
.B errno
followed by a newline.
.sp
.LP
The language for error message strings written by
.B t_error()
is that
of the current locale.  If it is English, the error message string
describing the value in
.B t_errno
may be derived from the comments
following the
.B t_errno
codes defined in
.BR xti.h .
The contents of
the error message strings describing the value in
.B errno
are the same
as those returned by the  \fBstrerror\fR(3C) function with an argument of
.BR errno .
.sp
.LP
The error number,
.BR t_errno ,
is only set when an error occurs and it is
not cleared on successful calls.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
If a \fBt_connect\fR(3NSL) function fails on transport endpoint \fIfd2\fR
because a bad address was given, the following call might follow the
failure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_error("t_connect failed on fd2");
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The diagnostic message to be printed would look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_connect failed on fd2: incorrect addr format
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.I "incorrect addr format"
identifies the specific error that
occurred, and
.I "t_connect failed on fd2"
tells the user which function
failed on which transport endpoint.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
All - apart from \fBT_UNINIT\fR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined for the
.B t_error()
function.
.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <tiuser.h>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
value that can be set by the
.B XTI
interface and
cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface is:
.sp
.LP
.B TPROTO
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_errno\fR(3NSL)\fBstrerror\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
