'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_free 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_free \- free a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_free\fR(\fBvoid *\fIptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIstruct_type\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_free()
function frees memory previously allocated by
.BR t_alloc (3NSL).
This function will free memory for the specified
structure, and will also free memory for buffers referenced by the
structure.
.sp
.LP
The argument
.I ptr
points to one of the seven structure types described
for \fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL), and \fIstruct_type\fR identifies the type of that
structure which must be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
T_BIND      struct	t_bind
T_CALL      struct	t_call
T_OPTMGMT   struct	t_optmgmt
T_DIS       struct	t_discon
T_UNITDATA  struct	t_unitdata
T_UDERROR   struct	t_uderr
T_INFO      struct	t_info
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where each of these structures is used as an argument to one or more
transport functions.
.sp
.LP
The function
.B t_free()
will check the
.IR addr ,
.I opt
and
.I udata
fields of the given structure, as appropriate, and free the
buffers pointed to by the \fIbuf\fR field of the \fBnetbuf\fR structure. If
.I buf
is a null pointer,
.B t_free()
will not attempt to free memory.
After all buffers are freed,
.B t_free()
will free the memory associated
with the structure pointed to by
.IR ptr .
.sp
.LP
Undefined results will occur if
.I ptr
or any of the
.I buf
pointers
points to a block of memory that was not previously allocated by
.BR t_alloc (3NSL).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
ALL - apart from
.BR T_UNINIT .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOSTRUCTYPE
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
Unsupported
.I struct_type
requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.IR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <tiuser.h>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
value that can be set by the
.B XTI
interface and
cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface is:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_alloc (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
