'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_getprotaddr 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_getprotaddr \- get the protocol addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>

\fBint\fR \fBt_getprotaddr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_bind *\fIboundaddr\fR,
     \fBstruct t_bind *\fIpeeraddr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_getprotaddr()
function returns local and remote protocol
addresses currently associated with the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd .
In
.I boundaddr
and
.I peeraddr
the user specifies
.IR maxlen ,
which is the maximum size (in bytes) of the address buffer,
and
.I buf
which points to the buffer where the address is to be placed.
On return, the
.IR buf " field of "
.I boundaddr
points to the address, if
any, currently bound to
.IR fd ,
and the
.I len
field specifies the
length of the address. If the transport endpoint is in the
.B T_UNBND
state, zero is returned in the
.I len
field of
.IR boundaddr .
The
.I buf
field of
.I peeraddr
points to the address, if any, currently
connected to
.IR fd ,
and the
.I len
field specifies the length of the
address. If the transport endpoint is not in the 
.B T_DATAXFER,
.B T_INREL, T_OUTCON
or
.B T_OUTREL
states, zero is returned in
the
.I len
field of
.IR peeraddr .
If the
.I maxlen
field of
.I boundaddr
or
.I peeraddr
is set to zero, no address is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
ALL - apart from
.BR T_UNINIT .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBUFOVFLW
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
The number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument (\fImaxlen)\fR is
greater than
.B 0
but not sufficient to store the value of that
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the
.B TLI
interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_bind (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
