'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_look 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_look \- look at the current event on a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_look\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function returns the current event on the transport endpoint specified
by
.IR fd .
This function enables a transport provider to notify a
transport user of an asynchronous event when the user is calling functions
in synchronous mode. Certain events require immediate notification of the
user and are indicated by a specific error,
.BR TLOOK ,
on the current or
next function to be executed.
.sp
.LP
This function also enables a transport user to poll a transport endpoint
periodically for asynchronous events.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success,
.B t_look()
returns a value that indicates which of the
allowable events has occurred, or returns zero if no event exists. One of
the following events is returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_LISTEN
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Connection indication received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_CONNECT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Connect confirmation received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_DATA
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Normal data received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_EXDATA
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Expedited data received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_DISCONNECT
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Disconnection received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_UDERR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Datagram error indication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_ORDREL
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Orderly release indication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_GODATA
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Flow control restrictions on normal data flow that led to a
.BR TFLOW
error have been lifted. Normal data may be sent again.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_GOEXDATA
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt
Flow control restrictions on expedited data flow that led to a
.BR TFLOW
error have been lifted. Expedited data may be sent again.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On failure,  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
ALL - apart from
.BR T_UNINIT .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <tiuser.h>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Return Values"
.sp
.LP
The return values that are defined by the
.B XTI
interface and cannot be
returned by the
.B TLI
interface are:
.br
.in +2
.B T_GODATA
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B T_GOEXDATA
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
value that can be set by the
.B XTI
interface and
cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface is:
.br
.in +2
.B TPROTO
.in -2
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_open (3NSL),
.BR t_snd (3NSL),
.BR t_sndudata (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
