'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_open 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_open \- establish a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>
#include <fcntl.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_open\fR(\fBconst char *\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIoflag\fR, \fBstruct t_info *\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_open()
function must be called as the first step in the
initialization of a transport endpoint. This function establishes a
transport endpoint by supplying a transport provider identifier that
indicates a particular transport provider, that is, transport protocol, and
returning a file descriptor that identifies that endpoint.
.sp
.LP
The argument
.I name
points to a transport provider identifier and
.I oflag
identifies any open flags, as in
.BR open (2).
The argument
.I oflag
is constructed from
.B O_RDWR
optionally bitwise
inclusive-OR'ed with
.B O_NONBLOCK.
These flags are defined by the
header \fB<fcntl.h>\fR\&. The file descriptor returned by \fBt_open()\fR
will be used by all subsequent functions to identify the particular local
transport endpoint.
.sp
.LP
This function also returns various default characteristics of the
underlying transport protocol by setting fields in the \fBt_info\fR
structure. This argument points to a
.B t_info
which contains the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_scalar_t addr;        /* max size of the transport protocol address */
t_scalar_t options;     /* max number of bytes of  */
	                        /* protocol-specific options  */
t_scalar_t tsdu;        /* max size of a transport service data  */
	                        /* unit (TSDU)  */
t_scalar_t etsdu;       /* max size of an expedited transport  */
	                        /* service data unit (ETSDU)  */
t_scalar_t connect;     /* max amount of data allowed on  */
                        /* connection establishment functions  */
t_scalar_t discon;      /* max amount of data allowed on  */
                        /* t_snddis() and t_rcvdis() functions  */
t_scalar_t servtype;    /* service type supported by the  */
	                        /* transport provider  */
t_scalar_t flags;       /* other info about the transport provider  */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The values of the fields have the following meanings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I addr
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A value greater than zero (\fBT_NULL\fR) indicates the maximum size of a
transport protocol address and a value of -2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies
that the transport provider does not provide user access to transport
protocol addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I options
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A value greater than zero (\fBT_NULL\fR) indicates the maximum number of
bytes of protocol-specific options supported by the provider, and a value of
-2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies that the transport provider does not support
user-settable options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I tsdu
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A value greater than zero (\fBT_NULL\fR specifies the maximum size of a
transport service data unit (TSDU); a value of zero (\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies
that the transport provider does not support the concept of TSDU, although
it does support the sending of a data stream with no logical boundaries
preserved across a connection; a value of -1 (\fBT_INFINITE\fR) specifies
that there is no limit to the size of a TSDU; and a value of -2
(\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies that the transfer of normal data is not
supported by the transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I etsdu
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A value greater than zero (\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies the maximum size of an
expedited transport service data unit (ETSDU); a value of zero
(\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies that the transport provider does not support the
concept of ETSDU, although it does support the sending of an expedited data
stream with no logical boundaries preserved across a connection; a value of
-1 (\fBT_INFINITE\fR)  specifies that there is no limit on the size of an
ETSDU; and a value of -2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies that the transfer of
expedited data is not supported by the transport provider. Note that the
semantics of expedited data may be quite different for different transport
providers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I connect
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A value greater than zero (\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies the maximum amount of
data that may be associated with connection establishment functions, and a
value of -2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies that the transport provider does not
allow data to be sent with connection establishment functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I discon
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
If the
.B T_ORDRELDATA
bit in flags is clear, a value greater than zero
(\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies the maximum amount of data that may be associated
with the \fBt_snddis\fR(3NSL) and \fBt_rcvdis\fR(3NSL) functions, and a
value of -2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) specifies that the transport provider does not
allow data to be sent with the abortive release functions. If the
.B T_ORDRELDATA
bit is set in flags, a value greater than zero
(\fBT_NULL\fR) specifies the maximum number of octets that may be associated
with the
.BR t_sndreldata() ,
.BR t_rcvreldata() ,
.BR t_snddis (3NSL)
and
.BR t_rcvdis (3NSL)
functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I servtype
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This field specifies the service type supported by the transport provider,
as described below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.I flags
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This is a bit field used to specify other information about the
communications provider.  If the
.B T_ORDRELDATA
bit is set, the
communications provider supports user data to be sent with an orderly
release. If the
.B T_SENDZERO
bit is set in flags, this indicates the
underlying transport provider supports the sending of zero-length TSDUs.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a transport user is concerned with protocol independence, the above
sizes may be accessed to determine how large the buffers must be to hold
each piece of information. Alternatively, the \fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL) function
may be used to allocate these buffers. An error will result if a transport
user exceeds the allowed data size on any function.
.sp
.LP
The
.I servtype
field of
.I info
specifies one of the following
values on return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_COTS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The transport provider supports a connection-mode service but does not
support the optional orderly release facility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_COTS_ORD
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The transport provider supports a connection-mode service with the optional
orderly release facility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_CLTS
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The transport provider supports a connectionless-mode service. For this
service type,
.B t_open()
will return -2 (\fBT_INVALID\fR) for
.IR etsdu ,
.I connect
and
.IR discon .
.RE

.sp
.LP
A single transport endpoint may support only one of the above services at
one time.
.sp
.LP
If
.I info
is set to a null pointer by the transport user, no protocol
information is returned by
.BR t_open() .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
A valid file descriptor is returned upon successful completion.  Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_UNINIT .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADFLAG
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
An invalid flag is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADNAME
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
Invalid transport provider name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the
.B "xti.h TLI"
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include <tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
values
.B TPROTO
and
.B TBADNAME
can be set by the
.B XTI
interface but cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface.
.SS "Notes"
.sp
.LP
For
.B TLI
, the \fBt_info\fR structure referenced by \fIinfo\fR lacks
the following structure member:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_scalar_t flags;    /* other info about the transport provider */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This member was added to \fBstruct t_info\fR in the \fBXTI\fR
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
When a value of -1 is observed as the return value in various \fBt_info\fR
structure members, it signifies that the transport provider can handle an
infinite length buffer for a corresponding attribute, such as address data,
option data,
.B TSDU
(octet size),
.B ETSDU
(octet size), connection
data, and disconnection data. The corresponding structure members are
.BR addr ,
.BR options ,
.BR tsdu ,
.BR estdu ,
.BR connect ,
and
.BR discon ,
respectively.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR open (2),
.BR attributes (5)
