'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_rcvrel 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_rcvrel \- acknowledge receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvrel\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
.B TLI
interfaces.
.B XTI
represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
.B TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function is used to receive an orderly release indication for the
incoming direction of data transfer. The argument
.I fd
identifies the
local transport endpoint where the connection exists. After receipt of this
indication, the user may not attempt to receive more data by means of
.BR t_rcv (3NSL)
or
.BR t_rcvv() .
Such an attempt will fail with
.I t_error
set to
.BR TOUTSTATE .
However, the user may continue to send
data over the connection if
.BR t_sndrel "(3NSL) has not been called by the"
user. This function is an optional service of the transport provider, and is
only supported if the transport provider returned service type
.B T_COTS_ORD
on
.BR t_open (3NSL)
or \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL). Any user
data that may be associated with the orderly release indication is discarded
when
.B t_rcvrel()
is called.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
.BR T_OUTREL .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TLOOK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOREL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified transport
endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOTSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TOUTSTATE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The communications endpoint referenced by
.I fd
is not in one of the
states in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include<tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
values that can be set by the
.B XTI
interface and
cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface are:
.br
.in +2
.B TPROTO
.in -2
.br
.in +2
.B TOUTSTATE
.in -2
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_getinfo (3NSL),
.BR t_open (3NSL),
.BR t_sndrel (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
