'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_rcvreldata 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_rcvreldata \- receive an orderly release indication or confirmation
containing user data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvreldata\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_discon *\fIdiscon\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is used to receive an orderly release indication for the
incoming direction of data transfer and to retrieve any user data sent with
the release. The argument
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint
where the connection exists, and
.I discon
points to a
.BR t_discon
structure containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf udata;
int reason;
int sequence;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
After receipt of this indication, the user may not attempt to receive more
data by means of
.BR t_rcv "(3NSL) or "
.BR t_rcvv (3NSL)
Such an attempt
will fail with
.I t_error
set to
.BR TOUTSTATE .
However, the user may
continue to send data over the connection if
.BR t_sndrel "(3NSL) or"
.B t_sndreldata (3N)
has not been called by the user.
.sp
.LP
The field
.I reason
specifies the reason for the disconnection through
a protocol-dependent
.IR "reason code" ,
and
.I udata
identifies any
user data that was sent with the disconnection; the field
.I sequence
is
not used.
.sp
.LP
If a user does not care if there is incoming data and does not need to know
the value of
.IR reason ,
.I discon
may be a null pointer, and any user
data associated with the disconnection will be discarded.
.sp
.LP
If
.I
discon\(->udata.maxlen \c
is greater than zero and less than the
length of the value,
.B t_rcvreldata()
fails with
.B t_errno
set to
.BR TBUFOVFLW .
.sp
.LP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider, only
supported by providers of service type
.B T_COTS_ORD.
The flag
.B T_ORDRELDATA
in the
.I info\(->flag
field returned by
.BR t_open (3NSL)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3NSL)
indicates that the provider
supports orderly release user data; when the flag is not set, this function
behaves like
.BR t_rcvrel "(3NSL) and no user data is returned."
.sp
.LP
This function may not be available on all systems.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned. Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
.BR T_OUTREL .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBUFOVFLW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data (maxlen) is greater than
.B 0
but not sufficient to store the data, and the disconnection
information to be returned in
.I discon
will be discarded. The provider
state, as seen by the user, will be changed as if the data was successfully
retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TLOOK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOREL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified transport
endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOTSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Orderly release is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TOUTSTATE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The communications endpoint referenced by
.I fd
is not in one of the
states in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the
.B TLI
interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_getinfo (3NSL),
.BR t_open (3NSL),
.BR t_sndreldata (3NSL),
.BR t_rcvrel (3NSL),
.BR t_sndrel (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces
.BR t_sndreldata "(3NSL) and"
.B t_rcvreldata()
are only
for use with a specific transport called "minimal OSI," which is not
available on the Solaris platform. These interfaces are not available for
use in conjunction with Internet Transports (\fBTCP\fR or
.BR UDP ).
