'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_rcvuderr 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_rcvuderr \- receive a unit data error indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvuderr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_uderr *\fIuderr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the 
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
\fBTLI COMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function is used in connectionless-mode to receive information
concerning an error on a previously sent data unit, and should only be
issued following a unit data error indication. It informs the transport user
that a data unit with a specific destination address and protocol options
produced an error. The argument \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport
.RI "endpoint through which the error report will be received, and" " uderr"
points to a
.B t_uderr
structure containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf addr;
struct netbuf opt;
t_scalar_t error;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The
.I maxlen
field of
.I addr
and
.I opt
must be set before
calling this function to indicate the maximum size of the buffer for each.
If this field is set to zero for 
.I addr
or
.IR opt ,
no information
is returned in the  \fIbuf\fR field of this parameter.
.sp
.LP
On return from this call, the
.I addr
structure specifies the
destination protocol address of the erroneous data unit, the \fIopt\fR
structure identifies options that were associated with the data unit, and
\fBerror\fR specifies a protocol-dependent error code.
.sp
.LP
If the user does not care to identify the data unit that produced an error,
\fIuderr\fR may be set to a null pointer, and \fBt_rcvuderr()\fR will simply
clear the error indication without reporting any information to the user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of 
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_IDLE .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBUFOVFLW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or options
\fI(maxlen)\fR is greater than 0 but not sufficient to store the
information. The unit data error information to be returned in \fIuderr\fR
will be discarded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOTSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOUDERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
No unit data error indication currently exists on the specified transport
endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TOUTSTATE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The communications endpoint referenced by \fIfd\fR is not in one of the
states in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
.B #include <tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
values
.B TPROTO
and
.B TOUTSTATE
can be set by the
\fBXTI\fR interface but not by the \fBTLI\fR interface.
.sp
.LP
A
.B t_errno
value that this routine can return under different
circumstances than its
.B XTI
counterpart is
.B TBUFOVFLW.
It can be
returned even when the
.B maxlen
field of the corresponding buffer has
been set to zero.
.SS "Option Buffers"
.sp
.LP
The format of the options in an
.B opt
buffer is dictated by the
transport provider. Unlike the
.B XTI
interface, the
.B TLI
interface
does not fix the buffer format.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_rcvudata (3NSL),
.BR t_sndudata (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
