'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_rcvconnect 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_rcvconnect \- receive the confirmation from a connection request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvconnect\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_call *\fIcall\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
\fBTLI COMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function enables a calling transport user to determine the status of a
previously sent connection request and is used in conjunction with
.BR t_connect (3NSL)
to establish a connection in asynchronous mode, and to
complete a synchronous
.BR t_connect "(3NSL) call that was interrupted by a"
signal. The connection will be established on successful completion of this
function.
.sp
.LP
The argument \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint where
communication will be established, and
.I call
contains information
.RI "associated with the newly established connection. The argument" " call"
points to a
.B t_call
structure which contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBstruct netbuf addr;
struct netbuf opt;
struct netbuf udata;
int sequence;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In
.IR call ,
\fIaddr\fR returns the protocol address associated with the
responding transport endpoint,
.I opt
presents any options associated
with the connection,
.I udata
points to optional user data that may be
returned by the destination transport user during connection establishment,
and
.I sequence
has no meaning for this function.
.sp
.LP
The
.I maxlen
field of each argument must be set before issuing this
function to indicate the maximum size of the buffer for each. However,
\fImaxlen\fR can be set to zero, in which case no information to this
specific argument is given to the user on the return from
.BR t_rcvconnect() .
If
.I call
is set to
.I NULL,
no information
at all is returned. By default,
.B t_rcvconnect()
executes in synchronous
mode and waits for the connection to be established before returning. On
return, the
.IR addr ,
\fIopt\fR and \fIudata\fR fields reflect values
associated with the connection.
.sp
.LP
If
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set by means of
.BR t_open "(3NSL) or"
\fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBt_rcvconnect()\fR executes in asynchronous mode, and
reduces to a poll for existing connection confirmations. If none are
available,
.B t_rcvconnect()
fails and returns immediately without
waiting for the connection to be established. See
.B TNODATA
below. In
this case,
.B t_rcvconnect()
must be called again to complete the
connection establishment phase and retrieve the information returned in
.IR call .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_OUTCON .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBUFOVFLW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument
.I (maxlen)
is
greater than
.B 0
but not sufficient to store the value of that
argument, and the connection information to be returned in
.I call
will
be discarded. The provider's state, as seen by the user, will be changed to
.B T_DATAXFER.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TLOOK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport connection and
requires immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNODATA
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR was set, but a connection confirmation has not yet
arrived.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOTSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TOUTSTATE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The communications endpoint referenced by  \fIfd\fR is not in one of the
states in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include<tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
value
.B TPROTO
can be set by the
.B XTI
interface
but not by the
.B TLI
interface.
.sp
.LP
A
.B t_errno
value that this routine can return under different
circumstances than its
.B XTI
counterpart is
.BR TBUFOVFLW .
It can be
returned even when the
.B maxlen
field of the corresponding buffer has
been set to zero.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR t_accept (3NSL),
.BR t_alloc (3NSL),
.BR t_bind (3NSL),
.BR t_connect (3NSL),
.BR t_listen (3NSL),
.BR t_open (3NSL),
.BR t_optmgmt (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
