'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_sndreldata 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_sndreldata \- initiate or respond to an orderly release with user data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_sndreldata\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_discon *\fIdiscon\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is used to initiate an orderly release of the outgoing
direction of data transfer and to send user data with the release.  The
argument
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the
connection exists, and
.I discon
points to a
.B " t_discon"
structure
containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf udata;
int reason;
int sequence;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
After calling
.BR t_sndreldata() ,
the user may not send any more data
over the connection.  However, a user may continue to receive data if an
orderly release indication has not been received.
.sp
.LP
The field
.I reason
specifies the reason for the disconnection through
a protocol-dependent
.IR "reason code" ,
and
.I udata
identifies any
user data that is sent with the disconnection; the field
.I sequence
is
not used.
.sp
.LP
The
.I udata
structure specifies the user data to be sent to the remote
user. The amount of user data must not exceed the limits supported by the
transport provider, as returned in the
.I discon
field of the
.I info
argument of
.BR t_open (3NSL)
or  \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL). If the
.I len
field of
.I udata
is zero or if the provider did not return
.B T_ORDRELDATA
in the 
.BR t_open (3NSL)
flags, no data will be sent to
the remote user.
.sp
.LP
If a user does not wish to send data and reason code to the remote user,
the value of
.I discon
may be a null pointer.
.sp
.LP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider, only
supported by providers of service type
.B T_COTS_ORD.
The flag
.B T_ORDRELDATA
in the  \fIinfo\(->flag\fR field returned by
.BR t_open (3NSL)
or 
.BR t_getinfo (3NSL)
indicates that the provider
supports orderly release user data.
.sp
.LP
This function may not be available on all systems.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of
.B 0
is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
.BR T_INREL .
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADDATA
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by the
transport provider, or user data was supplied and the provider did not
return
.B T_ORDRELDATA
in the
.BR t_open (3NSL)
flags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TFLOW
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
.B O_NONBLOCK
was set, but the flow control mechanism prevented the
transport provider from accepting the function at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TLOOK
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TNOTSUPPORT
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Orderly release is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TOUTSTATE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
The communications endpoint referenced by
.I fd
is not in one of the
states in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the
.B TLI
interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR t_getinfo (3NSL),
.BR t_open (3NSL),
.BR t_rcvrel (3NSL),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3NSL),
.BR t_sndrel (3NSL),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces
.B t_sndreldata()
and
.BR t_rcvreldata "(3NSL) are only"
for use with a specific transport called "minimal OSI," which is not
available on the Solaris platform. These interfaces are not available for
use in conjunction with Internet Transports (\fBTCP\fR or
.BR UDP ).
