'\" te
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd., All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online
.\" at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group,
.\" have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in
.\" the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard
.\" for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX),
.\" The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the
.\" Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
.\" In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original
.\" IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard is the referee document.
.\"
.\" The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH t_sync 3NSL "7 May 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
t_sync \- synchronize transport library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_sync\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the
.B XTI
interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However,
.B TLI
interfaces are supported for compatibility.
When using a
.B TLI
routine that has the same name as an
.BR XTI
routine, the 
.B tiuser.h
header file must be used.  Refer to the
\fBTLI COMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences
between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
For the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd ,
.B t_sync()
synchronizes the data structures managed by the transport library with
information from the underlying transport provider. In doing so, it can
convert an uninitialized file descriptor (obtained by means of a
.BR open (2),
.BR dup (2)
or as a result of a
.BR fork (2)
and
.BR exec (2))
to an initialized transport endpoint, assuming that the file
descriptor referenced a transport  endpoint, by updating and allocating the
necessary library data structures. This function also allows two cooperating
processes to synchronize their interaction with a transport provider.
.sp
.LP
For example, if a process forks a new process and issues an \fBexec\fR(2),
the new process must issue a
.B t_sync()
to build the private library
data structure associated with a transport endpoint and to synchronize the
data structure with the relevant provider information.
.sp
.LP
It is important to remember that the transport provider treats all users of
a transport endpoint as a single user. If multiple processes are using the
same endpoint, they should coordinate their activities so as not to violate
the state of the transport endpoint.  The function
.B t_sync()
returns
the current state of the transport endpoint to the user, thereby enabling
the user to verify the state before taking further action. This coordination
is only valid among cooperating processes; it is possible that a process or
an incoming event could change the endpoint's state \fIafter\fR a
\fBt_sync()\fR is issued.
.sp
.LP
If the transport endpoint is undergoing a state transition when
\fBt_sync()\fR is called, the function will fail.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the state of the transport endpoint is returned.
Otherwise, a value of  -1 is returned and
.B t_errno
is set to indicate
an error. The state returned is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_UNBND
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Unbound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_IDLE
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Idle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_OUTCON
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Outgoing connection pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_INCON
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Incoming connection pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_DATAXFER
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Data transfer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_OUTREL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B T_INREL
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt
Incoming orderly release (waiting for an orderly release request).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,
.B t_errno
is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TBADF
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint. This
error may be returned when the \fIfd\fR has been previously closed or an
erroneous number may have been passed to the call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TPROTO
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI
error
.BR (t_errno) .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSTATECHNG
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
The transport endpoint is undergoing a state change.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B TSYSERR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
and
.B TLI
interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The
.B XTI
interfaces use the header file,
.BR xti.h .
.B TLI
interfaces should
.I not
use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include <tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The
.B t_errno
value that can be set by the
.B XTI
interface and
cannot be set by the
.B TLI
interface is:
.br
.in +2
.B TPROTO
.in -2
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR dup (2),
.BR exec (2),
\fBfork\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2),
.BR attributes (5)
