'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acl_trivial 3SEC "6 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "File Access Control Library Functions"
.SH NAME
acl_trivial \- determine whether a file has a trivial ACL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lsec\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/acl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBacl_trivial\fR(\fBchar *\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B acl_trivial()
function is used to determine whether a file has a
trivial ACL. Whether an ACL is trivial depends on the type of the ACL. A
POSIX draft ACL is trivial if it has greater than
.BR MIN_ACL_ENTRIES .
An
NFSv4/ZFS-style ACL is trivial if it either has entries other than
.BR owner@ ,
.BR group@ ,
and
.BR everyone@ ,
has inheritance flags set,
or is not ordered in a manner that meets POSIX access control
requirements.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B acl_trivial()
returns 0 if the file's ACL
is trivial and 1 if the file's ACL is not trivial. If it could not be
determined whether a file's ACL is trivial, -1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B acl_trivial()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B EACCES
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A file's ACL could not be read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B ENOENT
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt
A component of
.I path
does not name an existing file or
.I path
is
an empty string.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acl (5),
.BR attributes (5)
