'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH acltomode 3SEC "10 Dec 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "File Access Control Library Functions"
.SH NAME
acltomode, aclfrommode \- convert an ACL to or from permission bits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR.\|.\|. \fB-lsec\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/acl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBacltomode\fR(\fBaclent_t *\fIaclbufp\fR, \fBint\fR \fInentries\fR, \fBmode_t *\fImodep\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBaclfrommode\fR(\fBaclent_t *\fIaclbufp\fR, \fBint\fR \fInentries\fR, \fBmode_t *\fImodep\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B acltomode()
function converts an
.B ACL
pointed to by
.I aclbufp
into the permission bits buffer pointed to by
.IR modep .
If
the
.B "USER_OBJ ACL"
entry,
.B "GROUP_OBJ ACL"
entry, or the
.B OTHER_OBJ ACL
entry cannot be found in  the
.B ACL
buffer,
then the function fails with
.B errno
set to
.BR EINVAL .
.sp
.LP
The
.B "USER_OBJ ACL"
entry permission bits are copied to the file
owner class bits in the permission bits buffer. The
.B OTHER_OBJ
.B ACL
entry permission bits are copied to the file other class bits in
the permission bits buffer. If there is a
.B CLASS_OBJ
(\fBACL\fR mask)
entry, the
.B "CLASS_OBJ ACL"
entry permission bits are copied to the
file group class bits in the permission bits buffer. Otherwise, the
.B GROUP_OBJ ACL
entry permission bits are copied to the file group
class bits in the permission bits buffer.
.sp
.LP
The
.B aclfrommode()
function converts the permission bits pointed to by
.I modep
into an ACL pointed to by
.IR aclbufp .
If the
.BR USER_OBJ
.B ACL
entry,
.B GROUP_OBJ
ACL entry, or the
.B OTHER_OBJ
ACL entry
cannot be found in the
.B ACL
buffer, the function fails with
.B errno
set to
.BR EINVAL .
.sp
.LP
The file owner class bits from the permission bits buffer are copied to the
.B USER_OBJ ACL
entry. The file other class bits from the
permission bits buffer are copied to the
.B "OTHER_OBJ ACL"
entry.
If there is a
.B CLASS_OBJ
(\fBACL\fR mask) entry, the file group class
bits from the permission bits buffer are copied to the
.BR CLASS_OBJ
.B ACL
entry, and the
.B "GROUP_OBJ ACL"
entry is not modified.
Otherwise, the file group class bits from the permission bits buffer are
copied to the
.B "GROUP_OBJ ACL"
entry.
.sp
.LP
The
.I nentries
argument represents the number of
.B ACL
entries in
the buffer pointed to by
.IR aclbufp .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function returns
.BR 0 .
Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability Evolving
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR acl (2),
.BR attributes (5)
