'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scf_error 3SCF "20 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_error, scf_strerror \- error interface to Service Configuration
Facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lscf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <libscf.h>

\fBscf_error_t\fR \fBscf_error\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst char *\fBscf_strerror\fR(\fBscf_error_t\fR \fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.RB "The " scf_error() " function returns the current " libscf (3LIB)
error
value for the current thread. If the immediately previous call to a
.B libscf
function failed, the error value will reflect the reason for
that failure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_strerror()
function takes an error code previously returned
by
.B scf_error()
and returns a human-readable, localized description of
the error.
.sp
.LP
The error values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_BACKEND_ACCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The storage mechanism that the repository server
.RB ( svc.configd (1M))
chose for the operation denied access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_BACKEND_READONLY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The storage mechanism that the repository server
.RB ( svc.configd )
chose
for the operation is read-only. For the local filesystem storage mechanism
(currently
.BR /etc/svc/repository.db ),
this usually occurs because the
filesystem that contains it is mounted read-only. See
.BR mount (1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_CONNECTION_BROKEN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection to repository is broken.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_CONSTRAINT_VIOLATED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required constraint was not met.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_DELETED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Object was deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_EXISTS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The object already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_HANDLE_DESTROYED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An object was bound to a destroyed handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_HANDLE_MISMATCH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Objects from different SCF handles were used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_IN_USE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The object is currently in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INTERNAL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_MEMORY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No memory is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_RESOURCES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository server is out of resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_SERVER
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository server is unavailable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NONE
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_BOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The handle is not bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Nothing of that name was found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_SET
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cannot use unset value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_PERMISSION_DENIED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The user lacks sufficient authority to conduct the requested operation. See
.BR smf_security (5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_TYPE_MISMATCH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The type does not match value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_VERSION_MISMATCH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The SCF version is incompatible.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The
.BR scf_error() " function returns "
.B SCF_ERROR_NONE
if there have
been no calls from
.B libscf
functions from the current thread. The
return value is undefined if the immediately previous call to a
.B libscf
function did not fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svc.configd (1M),
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR svc.configd (1M)
