'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scf_tmpl_pg_name 3SCF "28 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_tmpl_pg_name, scf_tmpl_pg_type, scf_tmpl_pg_target, scf_tmpl_pg_required,
scf_tmpl_pg_common_name, scf_tmpl_pg_description \- retrieve the metadata
about a specific property group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lscf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <libscf.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_name\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBchar **\fIout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_type\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBchar **\fIout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_target\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBchar **\fIout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_required\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBuint8_t *\fIout\fR)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_common_name\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR \fIlocale\fR, \fBchar **\fIout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_description\fR(\fBconst scf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR \fIlocale\fR, \fBchar **\fIout\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions retrieve the metadata about a specific property group. They
require that the template for the property group has already been located by
one of the \fBscf_tmpl_pg_create\fR(3SCF) suite of functions.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_name()
function retrieves the name of the property
group template and place it in *\fIout\fR. If the property group name is
implicitly wildcarded (see
.BR smf_template (5))
in the template, this
function will return a string containing \fBSCF_TMPL_WILDCARD\fR ("*") in
*\fIout\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the *\fIout\fR buffer on
success.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_type()
function will retrieve the type of the property
group template and place it in *\fIout\fR. If the property group type is
implicitly wildcarded (see
.BR smf_template (5))
in the template, this
function will return a string containing \fBSCF_TMPL_WILDCARD\fR ("*") in
*\fIout\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the *\fIout\fR buffer on
success.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_target()
function will retrieve the target of the
property group template and place it in *\fIout\fR. The caller is responsible
for freeing the *\fIout\fR buffer on success.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_required()
function will determine whether the property
group is required and place the result of that check in *\fIout\fR. If
required is unset,
.I out
will be the default value of 0. If the property
is explicitly set to required,
.I out
will be 1.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_common_name()
function will retrieve the property
group's localized common name as currently templated and place it in
*\fIout\fR. A locale (as described in \fBsetlocale\fR(3C)) may be specified,
or if the supplied locale is NULL, the current locale will be used.  If a
common_name in the specified locale is not found, the function will also look
for a common_name in the C locale. Some templates will not specify the
property group common name.  The caller is responsible for freeing the
*\fIout\fR buffer on success.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_description()
function will retrieve the property
group's localized description as currently templated and place it in
*\fIout\fR. A locale (as described in \fBsetlocale\fR(3C)) may be specified,
or if the supplied locale is NULL, the current locale will be used. If a
description in the specified locale is not found, the function will also look
for a description in the C locale. Some templates will not specify the
property group description.  The caller is responsible for freeing the
*\fIout\fR buffer on success.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_name() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_common_name() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_description() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_target() ,
and
.B scf_tmpl_pg_type()
return the length of
the string written, not including the terminating null byte. Otherwise, they
return -1.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B scf_tmpl_pg_required()
returns 0.
Otherwise, it returns -1.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_name() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_common_name() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_description() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_required() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_target() ,
and
.B scf_tmpl_pg_type()
functions will fail
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_BACKEND_ACCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The storage mechanism that the repository server (\fBsvc.configd\fR(1M))
chose for the operation denied access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_CONNECTION_BROKEN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection to the repository was lost.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_DELETED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The template property group has been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_HANDLE_DESTROYED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The handle passed in has been destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INTERNAL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_MEMORY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is not enough memory to populate the
.BR scf_pg_tmpl_t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_RESOURCES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server does not have adequate resources to complete the request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_BOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The handle is not currently bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_PERMISSION_DENIED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The template could not be read due to access restrictions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_TEMPLATE_INVALID
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The template data is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBscf_tmpl_pg_common_name()\fR and \fBscf_tmpl_pg_description()\fR
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The property does not exist or exists and has no value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The locale string is too long.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svc.configd (1M),
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_create (3SCF),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf_template (5)
