'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scf_limit 3SCF "17 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_limit \- limit information for Service Configuration Facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lscf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <libscf.h>

\fBssize_t\fR \fBscf_limit\fR(\fBuint32_t\fR \fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_limit()
function returns information about
implementation-defined limits in the service configuration facility. These
limits are generally maximum lengths for various strings. The values
returned do not change during the execution of a program, but they should
not be cached between executions.
.sp
.LP
The available values for
.I name
are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_LIMIT_MAX_FMRI_LENGTH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the maximum length of an FMRI the service configuration facility
accepts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_LIMIT_MAX_PG_TYPE_LENGTH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the maximum length for property group types in the service
configuration facility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_LIMIT_MAX_NAME_LENGTH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the maximum length for names in the service configuration facility.
This value does not include space for the required terminating null byte.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_LIMIT_MAX_VALUE_LENGTH
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the maximum string length a scf_value_t can hold, not including the
terminating null byte.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Lengths do not include space for the required terminating null byte.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,
.B scf_limit()
returns the requested value.
Otherwise, it returns -1.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_limit()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The
.I name
argument is not a recognized request.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.BR scf_error (3SCF)
function can be used to retrieve the error
value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR libscf (3LIB),
.BR scf_error (3SCF),
.BR attributes (5)
