'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH scf_tmpl_pg_create 3SCF "28 Oct 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_tmpl_pg_create, scf_tmpl_pg_reset, scf_tmpl_pg_destroy,
scf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name, scf_tmpl_get_by_pg, scf_tmpl_iter_pgs \- template
property group functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lscf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <libscf.h>

\fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fBscf_tmpl_pg_create\fR(\fBscf_handle_t *\fIhandle\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_reset\fR(\fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBscf_tmpl_pg_destroy\fR(\fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name\fR(\fBconst char *\fIinstance_fmri\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIsnapshot\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpg_name\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIpg_type\fR, \fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscf_tmpl_get_by_pg\fR(\fBscf_propertygroup_t *\fIpg\fR,
     \fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscf_tmpl_iter_pgs\fR(\fBscf_pg_tmpl_t *\fIpg_tmpl\fR, \fBconst char *\fIfmri\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIsnapshot\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpg_type\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The template property group functions locate and give access to metadata about
SMF configuration for service instances. They are used to directly access
property group metadata and explore metadata for properties contained in those
property groups.
.sp
.LP
A property group does not need to be currently defined in order to explore
metadata about it, as long as the metadata is defined.  Thus, the property group
template functions operate on strings rather than \fBscf_propertygroup_t\fR
entities.
.sp
.LP
By default, when an instance FMRI is specified, \fBscf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name()\fR
and
.B scf_tmpl_iter_pgs()
lookup composed data from the running snapshot of
the instance. A different snapshot may be explicitly selected by specifying a
valid snapshot name rather than  NULL for the snapshot argument. If a service
FMRI is specified, the current properties are used.
.sp
.LP
By default, these functions also explore template data defined by the service
or instance itself, the service's restarter, and global template data. See
.BR smf_template (5)
for more information about this composition.
.sp
.LP
Once retrieved, the
.B scf_pg_tmpl_t
can be explored using the
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_name (3SCF)
and \fBscf_tmpl_prop_create\fR(3SCF) suite of
functions.
.sp
.LP
Before calling
.BR scf_tmpl_get_by_pg() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name() ,
or
.BR scf_tmpl_iter_pgs() ,
the
.B scf_pg_tmpl_t
must be allocated by
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_create() .
The
.B scf_pg_tmpl_t
can be reset to contain no
template information with
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_reset() ,
so that it can be used to
start an iteration from scratch. All associated memory can be freed with
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_destroy() .
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_get_by_pg()
function locates the most specific matching
template for the property group supplied. The parent of that property group can
be either a service or an instance.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name()
function locates the most specific matching
template for the property group as specified. As described above, when the
snapshot argument is
.I NULL
the default running snapshot is used. If flags
includes
.BR SCF_PG_TMPL_FLAG_CURRENT ,
the snapshot argument is ignored and
the current configuration is used. If flags includes
.BR SCF_PG_TMPL_FLAG_EXACT ,
only the exact FMRI is looked up. Either or both
of the
.I pg_name
and
.I pg_type
arguments may be specified as
.IR NULL .
In this case,
.I pg_name
and/or
.I pg_type
is wildcarded and matches any
value. The most specific snapshot matching those arguments is returned.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_iter_pgs()
function iterates across all templates defined
for the specified FMRI, snapshot, and optional property group type. It also
takes an optional flags argument. If flags includes
.BR SCF_PG_TMPL_FLAG_CURRENT ,
the snapshot argument is ignored and the
"running" snapshot is used. \fBSCF_PG_TMPL_FLAG_REQUIRED\fR searches only for
required property groups.
.B SCF_PG_TMPL_FLAG_EXACT
looks only at the exact
FMRI provided for templates, and not for templates defined on its restarter or
globally.
.sp
.LP
The iterator state for
.B scf_tmpl_iter_pgs()
is stored on the template data
structure. The data structure should be allocated with
.B scf_tmpl_pg_create()
and to continue the iteration the previously returned
structure should be passed in as an argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBscf_tmpl_pg_create()\fR function returns \fINULL\fR on failure and a
pointer to an allocated and populated
.B scf_pg_tmpl_t
on success. The caller
is responsible for freeing the memory with
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_destroy() .
.sp
.LP
The \fBscf_tmpl_get_by_pg()\fR and \fBscf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name()\fR functions
return 0 on success and -1 on failure.
.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_iter_pgs()
function returns 1 on successful completion. If
the iteration is complete, it returns 0. It returns -1 on error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The
.BR scf_tmpl_get_by_pg() ,
.BR scf_tmpl_get_by_pg_name() ,
and
.B scf_tmpl_iter_pgs()
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_BACKEND_ACCESS
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The storage mechanism that the repository server (\fBsvc.configd\fR(1M)) chose
for the operation denied access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_CONNECTION_BROKEN
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection to the repository was lost.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_DELETED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The instance or its template property group has been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_HANDLE_DESTROYED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The handle passed in has been destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INTERNAL
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The
.I handle
argument,
.I fmri
argument, snapshot name,
.IR pg_name ,
or
.I pg
is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_MEMORY
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is not enough memory to populate the
.BR scf_pg_tmpl_t .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_RESOURCES
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server does not have adequate resources to complete the request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_BOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The handle is not currently bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The object matching FMRI does not exist in the repository, or the snapshot does
not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_PERMISSION_DENIED
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The template could not be read due to access restrictions.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_get_by_pg()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NOT_SET
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt
The property group specified by
.I pg
is not set.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The
.B scf_tmpl_pg_create()
function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
The handle argument is
.IR NULL .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SCF_ERROR_NO_MEMORY
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt
There is no memory available.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR svc.configd (1M),
.BR scf_tmpl_pg_name (3SCF),
.BR scf_tmpl_prop_create (3SCF),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR smf_template (5)
