'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bgets 3GEN "9 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
bgets \- read stream up to next delimiter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBchar *\fBbgets\fR(\fBchar *\fIbuffer\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIcount\fR, \fBFILE  *\fIstream\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fIbreakstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B bgets()
function reads characters from
.I stream
into
.I buffer
until either
.I count
is exhausted or one of the characters
in
.I breakstring
is encountered in the stream. The read data is
.RB "terminated with a null byte ('" \e0 \&')
and a pointer to the trailing
null is returned. If a
.I breakstring
character is encountered, the last
non-null is the delimiter character that  terminated the scan.
.sp
.LP
Note that, except for the fact that the returned value points to the
.B end
of the read string rather than to the beginning, the call
.sp
.in +2
.nf
bgets(buffer, sizeof buffer, stream, "\en");
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
is identical to
.sp
.in +2
.nf
fgets (buffer, sizeof buffer, stream);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
There is always enough room reserved in the buffer for the trailing null
character.
.sp
.LP
If
.I breakstring
is a null pointer, the value of
.I breakstring
from
the previous call is used. If
.I breakstring
is null at the first call,
no characters will be used to delimit the string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.I NULL
is returned on error or end-of-file.  Reporting the condition is
delayed to the next  call if any characters were read but not yet
returned.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Example of the
.B bgets()
function.
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the name of the first user encountered in
.BR /etc/passswd ,
including a trailing ":"

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include<libgen.h>

int main()
{
    char buffer[8];
    FILE *fp;

    if ((fp = fopen("/etc/passwd","r")) == NULL) {
        perror("/etc/passwd");
        return 1;
    }
    if (bgets(buffer, 8, fp, ":") == NULL) {
        perror("bgets");
        return 1;
    }
    (void) puts(buffer);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR gets (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithread applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must be
defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in multithreaded
applications.
