'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH bufsplit 3GEN "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
bufsplit \- split buffer into fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBbufsplit\fR(\fBchar *\fIbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR, \fBchar **\fIa\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B bufsplit()
examines the buffer,
.IR buf ,
and assigns values to the
pointer array,
.IR a ,
so that the pointers point to the first
.IR n
fields in \fIbuf\fR that are delimited by \fBTABs\fR or  \fBNEWLINEs.\fR
.sp
.LP
To change the characters used to separate fields, call \fBbufsplit()\fR
with \fIbuf\fR pointing to the string of characters, and \fIn\fR and \fIa\fR
set to zero.  For example, to use colon (\|:\|), period (\|.\|), and comma
(\|,\|), as separators along with \fBTAB\fR and \fBNEWLINE:\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBbufsplit (":.,\et\en", 0, (char**)0 );\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The number of fields assigned in the array
.IR a .
If
.I buf
is zero,
the return value is zero and the array is unchanged.  Otherwise the value is
at least one.  The remainder of the elements in the array are assigned the
address of the null byte at the end of the buffer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Example of
.B bufsplit()
function.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/*
 * set a[0] = "This", a[1] = "is", a[2] = "a",
 * a[3] = "test"
 */
bufsplit("This\etis\eta\ettest\en", 4, a);
.fi
.in -2

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
.B bufsplit()
changes the delimiters to null bytes in \fIbuf\fR.
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must
be defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in
multithreaded applications.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR attributes (5)
