'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH gmatch 3GEN "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gmatch \- shell global pattern matching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgmatch\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstr\fR, \fBconst char *\fIpattern\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B gmatch()
checks whether the null-terminated string
.I str
matches
the null-terminated pattern string
.IR pattern .
See the
.BR sh (1),
section
.BR "File Name Generation" ,
for a discussion of pattern matching. A
backslash (\fB\e\fR) is used as an escape character in pattern strings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
.B gmatch()
returns non-zero if the pattern matches the string, zero if
the pattern does not.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of
.B gmatch()
function.
.sp
.LP
In the following example,
.B gmatch()
returns non-zero (true) for all
strings with "\fBa\fR" or "\fB-\fR" as their last character.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *s;
gmatch (s, "*[a\e-]" )
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR sh (1),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must
be defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in
multithreaded applications.
