'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH isencrypt 3GEN "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
isencrypt \- determine whether a buffer of characters is encrypted
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR  [\fIflag\fR].\|.\|. [\fIfile\fR].\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [\fIlibrary\fR].\|.\|.
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include<libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBisencrypt\fR(\fBconst char *\fIfbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIninbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B isencrypt()
uses heuristics to determine whether a buffer of
characters is encrypted. It requires two arguments: a pointer to an array of
characters and the number of characters in the buffer.
.sp
.LP
.B isencrypt()
assumes that the file is not encrypted if all the
characters in the first block are
.B ASCII
characters. If there are
non-\fBASCII\fR characters in the first \fIninbuf\fR characters, and if the
.B setlocale() LC_CTYPE
category is set to
.B C
or
.BR ascii ,
.B isencrypt()
assumes that the buffer is encrypted
.sp
.LP
If the
.B LC_CTYPE
category is set to a value other than
.B C
or
.BR ascii ,
then
.B isencrypt()
uses a combination of heuristics to
determine if the buffer is encrypted. If
.I ninbuf
has at least 64
characters, a chi-square test is used to determine if the bytes in the
buffer have a uniform distribution; if it does, then \fBisencrypt()\fR
assumes the buffer is encrypted.  If the buffer has less than 64 characters,
a check is made for null characters and a terminating  new-line to determine
whether the buffer is encrypted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the buffer is encrypted,
.B 1
is returned; otherwise, zero is
returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must
be defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in
multithreaded applications.
