'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strccpy 3GEN "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strccpy, streadd, strcadd, strecpy \- copy strings, compressing or
expanding escape codes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBchar *\fBstrccpy\fR(\fBchar *\fIoutput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIinput\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBstrcadd\fR(\fBchar *\fIoutput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIinput\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBstrecpy\fR(\fBchar *\fIoutput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIinput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIexceptions\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBstreadd\fR(\fBchar *\fIoutput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIinput\fR, \fBconst char *\fIexceptions\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
.B strccpy()
copies the
.I input
string, up to a null byte, to the
.I output
string, compressing the C-language escape sequences (for
example,
.BR \en ,
.BR \e001 )
to the equivalent character.  A null byte
is appended to the output. The
.I output
argument must point to a space
big enough to accommodate the result. If it is as big as the space pointed
to by
.I input
it is guaranteed to be big enough.
.B strccpy()
returns
the
.I output
argument.
.sp
.LP
.B strcadd()
is identical to
.BR strccpy() ,
except that it returns the
pointer to the null byte that terminates the output.
.sp
.LP
.B strecpy()
copies the
.I input
string, up to a null byte, to the
.I output
string, expanding non-graphic characters to their equivalent
C-language escape sequences (for example,
.BR \en ,
.BR \e001 ).
The
.I output
argument must point to a space big enough to accommodate the
result; four times the  space pointed to by
.I input
is guaranteed to be
big enough (each character could become
.B \e
and 3 digits). Characters
in the
.I exceptions
.RI "string are not expanded.  The" " exceptions"
argument may be zero, meaning all non-graphic characters are expanded.
.B strecpy()
returns the
.I output
argument.
.sp
.LP
.B streadd()
is identical to
.BR strecpy() ,
except that it returns the
pointer to the null byte that terminates the output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Example of expanding and compressing escape codes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* expand all but newline and tab */
strecpy( output, input, "\en\et" );

/* concatenate and compress several strings */
cp = strcadd( output, input1 );
cp = strcadd( cp, input2 );
cp = strcadd( cp, input3 );
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR string (3C),
.BR strfind (3GEN),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multi-thread applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must be
defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in multi-thread
applications.
