'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013, J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Andreas Roehler
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.TH strfind 3GEN "20 Jan 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strfind, strrspn, strtrns, str \- string manipulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR .\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR .\|.\|. \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .\|.\|. ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstrfind\fR(\fBconst char *\fIas1\fR, \fBconst char *\fIas2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fBstrrspn\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR, \fBconst char *\fItc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR \fBstrtrns\fR(\fBconst char *\fIstring\fR, \fBconst char *\fIold\fR, \fBconst char *\fInew\fR,
     \fBchar *\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The
.B strfind()
function returns the offset of the first occurrence of
the second string,
.IR as2 ,
if it is a substring of string
.IR as1 .
If
the second string is not a substring of the first string \fBstrfind()\fR
returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.sp
.LP
The
.B strrspn()
function trims chartacters from a string. It searches
from the end of
.I string
for the first character that is not contained
in
.IR tc .
If such a character is found,
.B strrspn()
returns a pointer
to the next character; otherwise, it returns a pointer to
.IR string .
.sp
.LP
 The
.B strtrns()
function transforms
.I string
and copies it into
.IR result .
Any character  that appears in
.I old
is replaced with the character in the same position in
.IR new .
The
.I new
result is returned.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the
.B _REENTRANT
flag must
be defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in
multithreaded applications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
An example of the
.B strfind()
function.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB/* find offset to substring "hello" within as1 */
i = strfind(as1, "hello");
/* trim junk from end of string */
s2 = strrspn(s1, "*?#$%");
*s2 = '\e0';
/* transform lower case to upper case */
a1[] = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz";
a2[] = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ";
s2 = strtrns(s1, a1, a2, s2);\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR string (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
